MATTER OF V-E-O-J-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a guitarist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes i~migrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a guitarist. The record reflects that from 1990 to 2000, he was the lead guitarist for 
the Philippine band The band then took a hiatus in 2000 until regrouping in 2005, this 
time without the Petitioner as a member. The record demonstrates that he rejoined the band as its 
lead guitarist in 2016. 
A. Substantial Benefit and Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
As an initial matter, the Acting Director held that because the Petitioner was recently unemployed 
and doing pro bono work as a guitarist after reuniting with Introvoys, he had not established that he 
would work to substantially benefit prospectively the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
states that the petitioner must show that he seeks to enter the United States "to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability" and that his entry "will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states that "the petition must be accompanied by 
clear evidence that [the petitioner] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of 
expertise," noting that such evidence may include a statement "detailing plans on how he or she 
intends to continue his or her work in the United States." We note that the Petitioner's statement in 
the record demonstrates that while he did not receive compensation for the shows in which he had 
performed, his intent was to work in his field of expertise by returning to the lntrovoys as the lead 
guitarist. He states that the band had been raising money for future tour expenses and to complete a 
studio. the drummer for , indicates that members of the band will 
begin receiving compensation once the studio is completed . We find that this evidence, together 
with the Petitioner's statement , sufficiently establishes that he intends to continue working in the 
2 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
area of extraordinary ability in a manner that will substantially benefit the United States to meet the 
requirements of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding in 
this regard. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met the following criteria: 
published material, judging, leading or critical role, and commercial successes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii), and (x), respectively, but that he had not met the criteria for scholarly 
articles, display, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (vii), and (ix). Ultimately, she 
concluded that the Petitioner had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. Here, we 
find that the record supports the conclusion that he meets three criteria to warrant a final merits 
determination. 1 
Specifically, we disagree with the Acting Director regarding published material and find that the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The Petitioner asserts that 
interviews conducted by Filam Star and UNTV meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
First, the record contains printouts from these websites with transcriptions of the interviews, but the 
record does not contain the dates of these interviews or proper translations of these documents as 
substantial portions of the interviews are in a foreign language. Any document in a foreign language 
must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator 
must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Second, the questions asked are 
about rather than focusing on the Petitioner individually in a manner that relates to his 
work in the field. The record does not contain evidence demonstrating Filam Star is major media or 
to establish that it is a professional or major trade publication to meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The other publications in the record, including the article from UNTV, are about 
and not about the Petitioner. See, e.g.. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at 
* 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the 
1 The Petitioner cites 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) and asserts that evidence of the songs he has written and the showcasing of 
his music in concerts constitutes comparable evidence that should be accepted instead of the scholarly articles and 
display criteria, which he claims do not readily apply to his occupation. The Acting Director held that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) is not applicable here because the Petitioner has met three criteria. The Petitioner contends that an 0-1 
nonimmigrant USCIS policy memorandum is instructive in this matter for the proposition that comparable evidence may 
be submitted if any of the criteria do not apply. The Acting Director held that memoranda for nonimmigrant visa 
classifications do not apply here. We agree. For the policy memorandum that is applicable to this matter, see USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 . E\'(//11u1ion o(EFidence S11h111i11ed wilh Cerlain Form /-140 Pel it ions: Revisions to 
the .4.diudicator's Field Manual rAFkl) Chapter ll.2. AFM Ut)(fate ADI 1-1-1 (Dec. 22. 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005- I .pdf. We also note 
that because the Petitioner has met three criteria, it is unnecessary for us to reach the comparable evidence issue. That 
said, in the final merits analysis we will consider the evidence of the songs the Petitioner has written and the concerts in 
which he has performed. 
3 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
actor).ln the few places where the Petitioner's name is mentioned, such as in articles from Smash! 
Magazine, the only details provided are about his biographical information and basic interests as part 
of the profiles of the band members. This does not constitute published material about him that 
relates to his work in the field as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he meets this criterion. 
We agree with the Acting Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for judging, 
critical role, and commercial success. For judging, the record indicates that in 
Philippines, the Petitioner was a judge for in 2015 and the leading or 
Laguna, 
singing contest in 2016, which satisfies the requirements of this criterion. Regarding leading or 
critical role, the record reflects that he meets this criterion as he was the lead guitarist for 
for approximately ten years, co-writing some of the band's most successful songs and the record 
shows that the band is an organization with a distinguished reputation.2 For commercial successes, 
the record demonstrates that the Petitioner, as a member oflntrovoys, shared in the band's success in 
record sales achieving gold, platinum, double platinum, triple platinum, and quadruple platinum 
awards. This demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final 
merits determination below.3 
C. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the record 
demonstrates, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
For published material, the record contains articles from the 1990s in Smash! Magazine about the 
with several articles that only mention the Petitioner as a guitarist for with his 
profile and basic interests. While indicative of acclaim during the 1990s, the other publications in 
the record do not establish that he has enjoyed national or international acclaim from 2000 through 
2016 when he rejoined the band. 
2 Later in the decision, but prior to the final merits discussion, the Acting Director held that he did not meet the leading 
or critical role criterion, even though she held that he did meet this criterion at the beginning of the decision. Here, we 
clarify that the record establishes that he meets this criterion. 
' As the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, we will discuss the evidence regarding each of the criteria he raises in the 
context of a final merits discussion. We will also discuss the evidence in the record of the Petitioner's song-writing 
ability and the showcasing of his music in concerts as part of the final merits discussion. 
4 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
As stated above, the record lacks certified translations of the interviews of members of 
published on the websites for Filam Star and UNTV, and it is unclear when these interviews took 
place or how widely viewed they were. We further note that these interviews discuss the success of 
the band in the 1990s and do not demonstrate that the Petitioner , as an individual , has enjoyed 
sustained national or international acclaim from 2000 onward. Documentation in the record from 
the Ranker website contains an article entitled, _ 
which lists the as number 26th. This ranking does not list individual members 
of and the Petitioner has not shown how this demonstrates his sustained national or 
international acclaim from 2000 onward. Also, in an article from 8List.ph entitled 
the '90s" is ranked 8th, but this relates to the band's success in the 1990s. 
The Petitioner states that we should not disregard the published material about simply 
because he was not a member at the time of publication , asserting that his acclaim is tied to the 
success of the original band. However , the record does not show what level of success the 
had from its restructuring in 2005 onward, or that its success during this time brought national or 
international acclaim to the Petitioner. Therefore, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has sustained national of international acclaim while not being a part of 
from 2000 to October 2016. 
With respect to judging, the two certificates regarding the Petitioner's judging experiences for the 
and the singing contest demonstrate that these were local 
events for the City of The record does not reflect that he received any other recognition 
for his role in judging these contests outside of this city to constitute national or international 
acclaim. 
Regarding the showcasing of the Petitioner's music in concerts, the record reflects that he was the 
lead guitarist for the during the 1 990s at the height of its success, but he has not shown 
how any concerts the band performed after his departure brought national or international acclaim to 
him. We note his first performance after reuniting with the band took place in February 2017. Even 
if he had shown that he again received national or international acclaim after rejoining in 
2016, or 2017 at his first concert as a reunited member of the band, this is not sufficient to establish 
sustained acclaim in the intervening period. The record contains reviews of concerts where 
performed, but the evidence does not demonstrate when these concerts took place or if the 
Petitioner performed. Furthermore, the publications with these reviews appear to be blog posts that 
individuals have posted on the Internet, but it has not been established how widely these reviews 
have been viewed. . Therefore, this evidence has not established that the Petitioner has enjoyed 
sustained acclaim as a result of his performances with 
As to his leading or critical role and his song-writing abilities, states that the 
Petitioner "has made valuable contributions into helping our collaborative efforts achieve what they 
were intended to do." He notes that their "most prominent collaboration , a song called 
is still on current rotation in terrestrial radio in the Philippines.'' As stated above, we note 
the success the had in the 1990s, but the Petitioner has not established how the current 
radio play of this song equates to his sustained national or international acclaim. It has not been 
5 
.
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
shown how much current radio play this song receives or to what extent the Petitioner has received 
acclaim for this from 2000 to 2016. While the record contains evidence of Y ouTube views of many 
of the songs of it is unclear over what period of time these views took place, and the 
Petitioner has not shown how this amounts to national or international acclaim. 
In a letter from the lead guitarist for the Filipino band during the 
1990s, he states that the Petitioner "was the lead guitarist of the band when their greatest hits were 
released ... making him an integral and intrinsic part of the band's successful sound." He indicates 
that and were among the most popular bands in the 1990s and had been in 
numerous occasions featured in the same shows or events." He notes that "[the Petitioner's] style is 
extraordinary insofar as creating melodic guitar 'pyrotechnics' that pulls inspiration from guitar 
legends Eddie Van Halen, Niel Schon, Yngwie Malmsteen and Jimi Hendrix while still maintaining 
his own unique musical sensibility, which in turn has made him an inspiration and hero to the next 
generation of Filipino guitarists." Similarly, , the lead vocalist in the Filipino band 
states that the Petitioner "is a true master of his instrument," "[h ]is sound is very distinct 
and his playing style, which clearly drew inspiration from other guitar icons, has blended so well" 
and "is now uniquely his." indicates that his "searing, melodic and sometimes anthemic 
guitar solos were something the audience anticipated." We acknowledge the Petitioner's expertise 
and his role as lead guitarist for from 1990 to 2000, but the record does not demonstrate 
that he has had sustained national or international acclaim from 2000 until October 2016 when he 
reunited with 
Pertaining to high salary, the record contains a letter from the former manager 
for stating that the band earned 150,000 Philippine pesos (Php) per show during its 
popularity in the 1990s. The Petitioner has not provided corroborating evidence to substantiate the 
salary he earned during this time or how it compared to other bands. Even if this had been 
established, he has not shown how his salary contributed to his sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
With respect to commercial success, the record contains a certification from 
detailing the album sales for the which include gold, platinum, double platinum, triple 
platinum, and quadruple platinum awards. While we acknowledge the commercial success of the 
in the 1990s and the Petitioner's role in the band during that time, the record reflects that 
the band took a hiatus in 2000 and that when the band resumed its activity, he was no longer part of 
it. In addition, he states that he left the music business in 2004 and the record reflects that he 
rejoined in October 2016. He has not shown that he enjoyed commercial success in the 
field from 2000 to October 2016 that resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. In 
addition, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has been commercially successful in the 
field since rejoining the band in 2016.4 
4 Documentation from the website indicates that in June 2013, the band went on a "successfu l, well-attended 
16-month tour of different cities, states, and provinces in the U.S. and Canada," but the Petitioner was not a member of 
the band at this time. 
Matter of V-E-D-J-C-
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary is eligible as 
an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-E-D-J-C-, ID# 1846417 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
.., .
U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OFJ-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in environmental 
engineering. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not submit certified English translations of foreign language documents and had satisfied only one of 
the initial evidentiary criterion, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation, contending that he meets seven of the 
ten criteria and qualifies for the classification. He maintains that he intends to operate a consulting 
firm in and that "[his] work could address real needs in American society clearly and 
unequivocally." 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to present 
comparable material if he or she can show that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In an August 2016 statement, the Petitioner indicates that he is "an established scientist" with "three 
decades of professional experience." He maintains that he has "devoted all [his] life to 
environmental engineering and related research, especially in water supply and wastewater disposal 
to solve major environmental problems such as water pollution." According to his 2016 "Statement 
Detailing My Plan to Continue Work in the United States," if the petition is approved, he intends to 
work as the "Chief Consultant" for a consulting firm I that he will establish "on water pollution 
prevention and control in America to make the information and technology [he had] gathered or 
developed from [his] previous research in China and Japan available in the United States." 
We have reviewed all the documents in the record, including those not specifically discussed in this 
decision, and conclude that they do not show the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirement of presenting documentation meeting at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 According to a letter from a company in China, it "has 
authorized [the Petitioner] to set up a consulting firm ... in America as its U.S. affiliate." 
2 
.
Matter of J-L-
A. Foreign Language Documents 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) specifies that a petitioner must provide certified English 
translations for foreign language documents. It provides: 
Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS [U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services] shall be accompanied by a full English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the 
translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign 
language into English. 
In her decision denying the petition, the Director indicated that the Petitioner had submitted foreign 
language documents, but not their full English translations. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director erred, because she had required translations for documents that were already in English. 
The record does not support the Petitioner's contention. His submissions contain a number of 
foreign language documents, including those related to: ( 1) projects in which he was involved, (2) 
his patents, (3) his research fellowships in Japan, and (4) his information posted on baike.baidu.com. 
On appeal, he presents additional evidence, including printouts from new.wanfangdata.com.cn; a list 
of what appears to be his articles, patents and publications; and a document about the "2017 
These documents either are in a foreign language or contain 
information in a foreign language. 
While the record includes English translations, some of them are not "full" and "complete" 
translations that satisfy the regulatory requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Specifically, some 
translations include ellipses, signifying omissions, and specify that they only translated "highlighted 
parts" of the foreign language documents. In addition, the documents concerning the Petitioner's 
research fellowships in Japan appear to be in Japanese. The certification of the translator indicates 
that he or she had "translat[ ed] the Chinese part of Japanese into English," but did not translate the 
Japanese portions of the documents. In light of these deficiencies, the foreign language documents 
and their partial translations are insufficient to establish the Petitioner's eligibility. We will discuss 
below the other documentation in the record. 
., 
.
Matter of J-L-
B. Initial Evidentiary Criteria2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. He has not made such a showing. His 
accomplishments include his receipt of the following: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) a First Prize 
a Second Prize 
two First Prize 
the "2006 
a First Prize 
certificates confirming the Petitioner's completion of academic studies; and 
a qualification certificate of registered environmental protection engineer from the 
Personnel Department of 
The Petitioner has offered letters from other scientists concerning these accomplishments. For 
example, in his November 2017 letter, of 
states that the Petitioner's awards and honors "are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field" because "[ m ]any of them were from national 
government and professional organizations directly." He claims, "[a]s far as [he] know[s], [the 
award from the is the highest honor for a university researcher in the entire 
country," the "is one of the largest national 
professional associations in the industry," and the publication _______ is "a 
journal of national and international impact in the field." 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a one-time achievement , that is a 
major, internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will discuss the evidence concerning the seven 
criteria that he claims to meet. 
4 
.
Matter of J-L-
of the _ offers similar opinions, claiming that the 
Petitioner has "received many nationally and internationally recognized honors and awards." 
of maintains that the Petitioner's 
award from the "is considered the highest honor for academic researchers in 
the entire country," and _ of _____ in Ireland, indicates 
that the Petitioner's awards are "major national awards." 
These letters, however, are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has received qualifying awards 
or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Specifically, while several individuals claim that the 
Petitioner's award from the ___ is the highest honor a university researcher could 
receive in China, neither they nor the Petitioner have explained the bases of, or pointed to documents 
in the record that support, this conclusion. While the award certificate states that it is to recognize 
"major contributions in furthering advancement of science and technology," the record lacks 
independent and credible evidence, such as reports from national or international publications 
discussing the level of recognition that the award enjoys in the field of environmental engineering. 
The record also does not specify the nomination or selection process or criteria for the award. 
In addition, information about an issuing entity's prominence in a field, without more, is insufficient 
to confirm that all awards from that organization are nationally or internationally recognized. For 
example, while the is a national governmental agency, the Petitioner has not 
shown that all its awards are nationally recognized for excellence in environmental engineering. 
Similarly, while the and the editorial board of 
might have certain level of impact in the field, without specific 
documentation about their awards, the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's awards 
from those entities are qualifying under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner offered an online printout 
from the formerly known as the 
This document discusses the organization's 
activities, referencing that it "organize[s] award programs," but does not provide any details about 
the Petitioner's award or establish that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of 
environmental engineering. 
With regard to the other awards and prizes, the Petitioner has not provided specific evidence about 
them or documentation that confirms that they are recognized nationally or internationally in the 
field. Likewise, his teaching awards, academic successes, research fellowships, and qualifications as 
an environmental protection engineer might illustrate that he has the necessary knowledge and 
experience to be a productive researcher , but are not tantamount to his receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of environmental engineering. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
5 
..
Matter of J-L-
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which class(fication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the associations in which he is a member 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner has not made such a showing. The 
record includes the following evidence concerning this criterion: 
(1) a certificate of appointment, appointing the Petitioner to be a member of the 
(2) a certificate, indicating that the Petitioner was elected to be a member of the 
(3) a certificate of appointment, appointing the Petitioner to be a member of the 
(4) certificates, noting that the Petitioner would serve as a member of the 
The record includes letters concerning these associations. For example, provides in his 
November 2017 letter that the organizations in which the Petitioner is member "are among the most 
prestigious in the field" and have "many national and international experts among its members." 
further claims that "only those who have made outstanding achievements are elected to 
[the] national committees." 
In his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner presented a letter from 
The letter, which is not signed and its author is not identified, 
claims that the Petitioner is a member of "national committees serving as the governing bodies of the 
larger organizations" and that "their memberships require outstanding achievements as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field." The letter states that "the individuals who 
review prospective me~bers' applications are recognized as national or international experts in their 
discipline s or fields." 
While these letters include the exact regulatory language concerning this criterion, they do not point 
to any evidence in the record that substantiates their conclusory statements. The record lacks official 
documents from the and the 
such as their constitutions, bylaws, or other documents that set forth the processes and 
criteria under which they select members or appoint them to committees. Without additional 
6 
.
Matter of J-L-
corroboration, statements from the Petitioner and his references that are not substantiated by 
independent and credible evidence are insufficient to demonstrate that these associations require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submits partially translated documents as evidence that he meets this criterion. As 
discussed, partially translated documents do not meet the regulatory requirements under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3), and are insufficient to establish his eligibility for the classification. Even if we were 
to consider these documents, we would not find that they satisfy this criterion. Specifically, the 
partially translated documents appear to be three published articles that the Petitioner had authored, 
and each article includes the same, one sentence description of him. He has not shown that one 
sentence constitutes "published material about him ... relating to [his] work," as required under the 
regulation. Even if it did, the documents do not indicate who had authored the sentence, as the 
criterion specifically requires such information. If the Petitioner had authored the description, then 
he has not demonstrated that such self-promotional material satisfies 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record also includes several printouts showing that websites have posted the Petitioner's 
information. The Petitioner, however, has not established that these websites constitute 
"professional or major trade publications or other major media." In addition, the record lacks 
information about "the title, date, and author of the material," as required under the regulation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specffication for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must offer evidence that he has actually judged the work of 
others, not merely that he has been invited to do so. The Petitioner maintains in his August 2016 
statement that he has "judged the work of others' [sic] in the field nearly 100 times for the 
provincial level governments tanging from 
and various industries." as well as 
and 
The Petitioner has offered evidence showing that he was appointed to be the "Deputy Director of the 
Qualification Evaluation Committee for Senior Professional Positions in 
a "Beijing Bid Evaluation Expert" for the 
and an "Expert Judge of __ ~~--~-~-----~ 
., 
.
Matter of J-L-
He has also presented additional documentation, showing that he was 
appointed as an editor or an expert for a number of entities. 
According to the Petitioner "has not only been 
invited to but has actually participated in judging the work of others in the field," and completes "[ a] 
large number of judging duties ... on a regular basis." The record includes reference letters that 
offer similar statements, but they do not point to evidence that substantiates the claims. 
The record lacks evidence of the Petitioner's actual participation as a judge. For example, while he 
claims to be an editor for a number of journals, he has not offered evidence that he has reviewed or 
edited any manuscripts for the publications. Similarly, although he has been named an expert by 
some organizations, he has not submitted documentation relating to the specific duties he has 
performed or confirming that the duties involved judging another scientist's work. Likewise, he has 
not presented statements from any entities that appointed him as an editor or expert that detail the 
work he has completed or explain if his work involved his evaluation of another's work. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts: "It is ludicrous for the [Director] to think that a person would refuse to 
perform such duties assigned by the national and local government and reject such assignment of 
honor." Notwithstanding this statement, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish he satisfies this 
criterion, which requires evidence of actual participation as a judge. See section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § 1361. Without additional evidence that credibly illustrates his activities after the 
appointments, he has not established that he has actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others. Accordingly, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of environmental engineering. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his research findings or original 
methods or processes have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based on his scholarly articles, books, conference 
presentations, research projects, inventions, and reference letters from other scientists. 
The record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. Although he 
asserts that the publication of his research is evidence of its significance , the record does not 
sufficiently demonstrate that his written work has been considered of major significance in the field. 
He indicates that his findings have been published in Japanese , English, and Chinese, and that they 
"have received more widespread recognition for their originality and significance , and reached a 
much wider audience than those of others in the field published or presented in more limited ways." 
According to printouts from google.com , which the Petitioner offers on appeal, his 1998 article 
has been cited 58 times. 
.
Matter of J-L-
He has not presented additional information on whether his other written work has received any 
citation or how many it has garnered. He has therefore not shown that the level of interest other 
scientists have taken to his work -as illustrated, in part, by the number of citations his work has 
received -supports a finding that he has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
While the reference letters discuss the Petitioner's research and articles, and note generally that his 
work has influenced the field, they do not explain how specifically the work has impacted the field 
in a major or significant way, consistent with a finding of"contributions of major significance." For 
example, , states that the Petitioner "made innovative approaches" and that scientists 
"have applied the [Petitioner's] process to real wastewater treatment in China with great success." 
He also states that the Petitioner "broke new grounds," made "major contributions to [the field's] 
understanding of the key environmental issues involved," and "helped many scientists around the 
world ... in [their] work." provides that the Petitioner's work "demonstrate[s] the 
extraordinary originality and major significance of [his] contributions to the filed, as well as the high 
caliber of expertise he possesses." also indicates that the Petitioner's findings "are 
bound to be far reaching." opines that the Petitioner has "been very productive and 
successful as born [sic] out by his impressive publication record and the awards and honors he has 
won." These letters show that the Petitioner's work has had some impact, which might one day be at 
a higher level, but they are insufficient to confirm that the impact has already risen to the level of 
"major significance." Although the Petitioner has also received awards for his work, the record does 
not specify the award issuing entities' selection process or criteria, or otherwise confirm the impact 
of the work to the field as a whole. 
Similarly, several reference letters provide that the Petitioner has been invited to present his findings 
at conferences. The letters, however, do not explain how his presentation and conference activities 
have impacted or influenced the field as a whole. Participation in a conference demonstrates that his 
findings were shared with others, but being selected to present, without more, is not indicative of the 
major significance of his contributions. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under this 
criterion absent evidence that they were of"major significance." Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 
1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he has received funding, 
including from governmental agencies and to conduct his research. An award 
of grants or funding signifies that the award issuing organization considers the research, as proposed, 
to have certain level of importance. But to demonstrate that the Petitioner has met this criterion, he 
must offer evidence that after the completion of the study, or the publication or presentation of the 
findings, the reaction to his work confirms that it has remarkably impacted or influenced the field as 
a whole. He has not submitted such evidence. Every research adds information to the pool of 
knowledge in some way for it to be accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every 
finding that broadens knowledge in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific contribution of 
major significance in that field. 
9 
.
Matter of J-L-
The record also includes evidence that the Petitioner has received patent certificates of invention that 
named him as the inventor. provides that the Petitioner has "at least 32 ... patents 
... range from devices, equipment, facilities, process, to methods, and technologies on prevention 
and mitigation of pollution in water and sludge for environmental protection." Although the patents 
show the originality of the Petitioner's work, without evidence that the invention or innovation has 
been widely used or adopted in the field, or have otherwise influenced the field in a significant way, 
the patents do not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner has submitted reference letters, including two from August 
2016 letter contains multiple passages regarding the Petitioner's contributions to the field that are 
virtually identical to sections in the Petitioner's own August 2016 statement. This raises concerns 
over the letter's authenticity and the source of its contents. For example, claims in his 
August 2016 letter: 
... For decades, [the Petitioner] has led the successful completion of over 40 major 
research projects funded by the government at the national, ministerial and provincial 
levels .... 
. . . [H]is research findings have been selected for publication or presentation in over 
190 journal articles and conference papers, and 9 books, which include monographs, 
handbooks, government industry standard guidelines, and textbooks, and some of 
which won top awards. In addition, [the Petitioner] has made a large number of 
inventions and innovations as demonstrated in his being listed as the first named 
inventor on over 30 patent certifications. The original nature and major significance 
of his scientific contributions are truly indisputable. 
The Petitioner states in his statement: 
... Over the years, I have completed over 40 major research projects funded by the 
government at the national, ministerial and provincial levels . . . . Many of my 
research findings have been selected for publication or presentation, resulting in over 
190 journal articles and conference papers, and 9 books. They include monographs, 
handbooks, government industry standard guidelines, and textbooks, as well as 
award-winning publications. In addition, I have made a large number of inventions 
and innovations, and is [sic] the first named inventor on over 30 patents, making the 
original nature and major significance of my scientific contributions indisputable . 
The similarities between these documents do not support a finding that letter reflects his 
independent observations, or his informed and unbiased opinion, of the Petitioner's 
accomplishments. Regardless , the documents in the record, including those not specifically 
mentioned, primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner 's status in the field without providing 
specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters 
that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already 
10 
.
Matter of J-L-
influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 
1036. Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. United States 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this finding 
because it confirms that he has authored scholarly articles, including 
-.. ~· ~ 
which are published in professional publications Journal 
of Residuals Science and Technology and Biochemical Engineering Journal, respectively. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must offer evidence that he has performed in a leading or 
critical role for qualifying organizations or establishments. For a leading role, he must show that he 
is or was a leader.3 For a critical role, he must demonstrate that he has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not his 
title of the role, but his performance in the role that determines if it is or was critical. 
The Petitioner has indicated that he has held the following titles and positions: 
(1) the Deputy Editor-in-Chief of a chapter in 
(2) an editorial board member for 
(3) an Expert of the 
(4) a Technology Expert of the 
J See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI /-/4 10 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/defau It/ft les/U SC I S/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-ev idence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
11 
.
Matter of J-L-
(5) a member "of the 
(6) a professor, supervisor of Ph.D. students, and deputy department chair for the 
(7) a research fellow at 
(8) an executive for 
While the Petitioner has offered evidence of his association with the above referenced entities, he 
has not presented sufficient evidence demonstrating that he satisfies this criterion. For most of the 
listed titles and roles, the record lacks sufficient evidence detailing the specific duties that he has 
performed. Without additional corroboration confirming his work and impact on the organizations, 
he cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements by offering conclusory statements that he meets the 
criterion. 
The Petitioner has offered some information about his role as a supervisor of Ph.D. students for the 
claiming that he has "supervised over 50 candidates for the 
doctoral and master's degrees, and over 40 of them have received their degrees." Some of his 
references have provided the same information in their letters, but have not specified the basis of 
their knowledge. The record lacks sufficient evidence detailing what the Petitioner had done as a 
supervisor of students, including his level of involvement, and how his work was critical to the 
university as a whole. 
Moreover, while the record shows that the Petitioner was a research fellow for two universities in 
Japan, it is insufficient to confirm that he was either a leader for the universities or that his work was 
critical to the universities. The Petitioner has also stated that he "played the leading or most critical 
role or both in ... projects [that led to publication of articles or presentation of findings] in 
comparison to others in the same research group." He, however, has not shown that "projects" 
constitute "organizations or establishments," as specified in the criterion. 
Furthermore, the record contains insufficient evidence showing that some of the entities for which 
the Petitioner claims to have performed a qualifying role have a distinguished reputation. For 
example, evidence that studies had led to publication of scholarly articles or periodicals that had 
published articles, without documentation of the studies and periodicals' standing in the field, is 
insufficient to show they have a distinguished reputation. Similarly, while the Petitioner is an 
executive at 
and has presented information about the companies and their executives, the 
record does not include sufficient documentation , such as independent media reports, confirming 
that they have a distinguished reputation. Accordingly , the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
12 
Matter of J-L-
C. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he has presented evidence concerning "two comparable 
categories." He, however, does not specify what documentation in the record falls under these "two 
comparable categories." Regardless, the regulation allows for the submission of comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
Petitioner's occupation. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.l, supra, at 12. He, 
however, has not demonstrated that the criteria do not readily apply to his intended occupation as the 
chief consultant for an environmental engineering firm. In fact, on appeal, he claims that he has met 
seven of the ten criteria. As such, the Petitioner has not established that he may submit comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-L-, ID# 1856846 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
13 MATTER OF A-L-O-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a multilingual voice over artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
..
Matter of A-L-O-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance , probative value, and credibility , both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a multilingual voice over artist. As he has not received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Acting Director found that the Petitioner 
had not met any of the following six criteria raised by the Petitioner: awards, published material, 
display, leading or critical role, high salary, and commercial success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , 
(iii), (vii), (viii), (ix), and (x), respectively. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
criteria for awards, published material, leading or critical role, and high salary. Upon reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt <f lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or award~.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner had not established that he met this criterion because he 
was not named as a recipient of the awards for the film or advertising projects in which he played a 
role. The record contains documentation about the award at the 2012 
with evidence demonstrating that he was listed among the 
creative team members credited in the campaign. The record reflects that the 
won the award for the 
, co-chief executive officer and executive creative director for Mexico, 
which oversaw the campaign , states that the Petitioner 's talents helped the organization win multiple 
awards, including the ____ award in 2012. ____ states,'' -~- 1s 
2 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
the world's biggest annual awards show and festival for professionals m the creative 
communications industry." 
In a letter from , the creative director for during the 
campaign, she states that she knew she needed to request the Petitioner for the voiceover and 
original music for the campaign. She indicates, "[The Petitioner] was an integral part of this creative 
team and without his participation and role in this project, we may not have receive the multiple 
international awards and accolades to this campaign." We find that the record indicates that the 
Petitioner's work was sufficiently tied to the success of the overall production for him to be 
considered a recipient of this award. The record contains media coverage pertaining to the 
establishing that this represents a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the.field.for which class(fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains the transcript of the in which the Petitioner was interviewed 
as a guest on the program. However, according to a letter from the producer and 
director of the Petitioner was not interviewed until November 2017, and the 
interviews would not be published until January 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing 
and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Thus, the Petitioner cannot establish 
eligibility with the interviews that were published after the filing of the instant petition. 
The record contains an article published on the website Style by Shock Visual entitled, 
[the Petitioner]" about his work as a voice over artist 
and musician. The record also contains articles about the Petitioner published in EstiloDF as well as 
on ovaciones.com and informate.com. While these articles are about the Petitioner and his work in 
the field, the Petitioner has not established that they are professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. The record does not contain evidence regarding the target audience or the 
circulation details for these publications. While the Petitioner notes that his own website averages 
7,469 hits per month, he has not established that the material on his website constitutes published 
material about him relating to his work in the field in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
3 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader.1 If a critical 
role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may 
be considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It 
is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather her performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has performed a critical role for multiple international 
brands. He states in the appeal brief that "a voice-over artist is critical to the success of an 
advertising or public service campaign." states that during his tenure at he 
has worked with the Petitioner in multiple campaigns for 
among others." He indicates that 
production services have helped with multiple awards for the his voice over talent and music 
and campaigns. 
The Petitioner contends that his work on the campaign represents a critical role, noting in 
his brief that articles in the record demonstrate that not only did this campaign win awards but "also 
helped champion the cause of encouraging employment of many disabled Mexicans in Mexico." 
The Petitioner does not provide evidence from the demonstrating that his role 
was critical to the activities of that organization or that it has a distinguished reputation. Rather, he 
provides evidence from the advertising company that ran the campaign. 
states, "[ the Petitioner] was an integral part of this creative team and without his participation and 
role in this project, we may not [have] received the multiple international awards and accolades 
attached to this campaign." Likewise, states that "the participation of [the Petitioner] 
was fundamental because our client was able to reach its goal, which was to raise 
employment offers for people with disabilities." The record does not demonstrate that the 
executives at can attest to the significance of the Petitioner's impact on its clients' activities. 
Similarly, with respect to the campaign, the record does not establish how the Petitioner's role 
was of significant importance to its company. 
The Petitioner claims that he has provided leading or critical roles to other companies. 
states in his letter that in Mexico the Petitioner "is the voice of 
among others." He then adds that in the United States, the Petitioner "is the main 
voice of brands like and the state of California." In a letter from 
founder of a voice over agency called , she states that the Petitioner 
"has been the institutional voice of in Mexico for six years." We note that the record 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1. Eru/11otiun of EviJence S11h111itted 1vith Certain Form 1-/-10 
Petitions; Revision.1 · IO the 11dj11Jicator's Field Alanual {AFMJ Clwpter 22.}, .,/f,',\-1 Update ADI/-/./ 10 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/defau lt/fi les/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- 140-evidenc e-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
2 Id. 
4 
.
Matter of A-L-O-
contains a receipt for voice over services the Petitioner provided to but he has not 
shown that the amount he was paid for these services is an indication that his work was critical to the 
organization. He has not provided other evidence from demonstrating how his work 
has impacted the company to show that it was of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization's activities. 
The record contains a letter from who partnered with m 
to connect individuals at all levels of voice talent with the "industry's leading coaches." She 
indicates that the Petitioner "was and still is, exactly the kind of coach we require in this new project 
and he has certainly proven to be an incredible asset to the organization." While and 
speak highly of the Petitioner's expertise as a voice over artist, this evidence tends to show 
that was a featured guest on this program rather than a regular contributor. The Petitioner has not 
shown how his contributions have been of significant importance to the organization's activities, or 
that ____ is an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also references a letter by , a Latin America Spanish voice over artist 
and Director of He states that she selected him to be one of ten male voices in .a voice 
bank for However, her letter does not indicate that he is a part of or what his role 
entails or how his work has impacted the organization's activities. Additionally, the record does not 
demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
In a letter from the director of show production with the and director 
of media at he states that the Petitioner has completed all of his Spanish translation 
and voiceover work for all of his projects. He states, "My clients love him, his work is top notch, 
and we will continue to request his services for many years to come." While this shows that the 
Petitioner provides high quality services to these companies, the record does not demonstrate that his 
translation or voice over services are of significant importance to the outcome of these 
organizations' activities. The record does not demonstrate how much of a presence these companies 
have in Spanish speaking countries and how the Petitioner's services contribute to this aspect of 
these companies. In addition, the record does not demonstrate that or 
are organizations with distinguished reputations. Therefore, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high 
remuneration.for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The record contains documents from the Petitioner's accountant attesting to his yearly salary for 
2013 through 2016. The record lacks evidence corroborating the Petitioner's income. The record 
contains samples of invoices of some voice over services he provided, but the Petitioner has not 
shown the complete extent of his salary each year. Even if the record did contain this evidence, or 
additional corroborating details from his accountant, this amounts to salaries of $82,710 for 2013, 
$93,135 for 2014, $29,406 for 2015, and $61,898 for 2016. The Petitioner indicates that the voice 
actor website at gravyforthebrain.com states that the top ten percent of voice actors earn $90,000 and 
above. We note that this document is undated and does not explain the source of its information . 
Matter of A-L-O-
While the record contains documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor indicating that the top 
ten percent of actors earn over $100 per hour as of May 2016, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence of the sources of the Petitioner's annual salary in that year to use this benchmark to 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-L-O-, ID# 1846296 (AAO Jan. 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-G-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN.3,2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
Tqe Petitioner seeks classification· as· an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 
U.S.C. §, 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the p~tition. Subsequently, the 
Director issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) the approval, advising the Petitioner that he did 
not satisfy the initial evidence requirement of presenting evidence of a one-time achievement that is 
a major, internationally recognized award, or documentation that met at least three of the ten criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). After reviewing the Petitioner's NOIR response, the 
Director revoked the approval of the petition, finding that it had been approved in error. 
On appeal, the Pe_titioner maintains that the Director erred, claiming that he meets five of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is eligible for the classification. He supports 
his appeal with additional documentation. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) . the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 In addition to the instant petition, the Petitioner has filed a second petition seeking classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. That second petition remains pending at the time of 
this decision. 
Maller of R-G-
acclaim and whose achievements have· been recognized m the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term ""extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small_ percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirement. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time _achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirement, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international accla}m and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percen~age at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 13-1-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be detern1ined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter <~(Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him [ or her] .... " 
In addition, the Board oflmmigration Appeals.has stated: 
[n Matter of £slime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of 
record at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would -.yarrant a 
denial of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of 
proof. The decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the 
2 
.
Matter of R-G-
time the decision is rendered, 'including any evidence or explanation submitted by the 
petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Maller of £slime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
l 987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Ho, 19 l&N Dec. at 590. The 
approval of a ·visa petition v~sts no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa 
petition is but a preliminary step in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by 
mere approval of the petition, entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Upon a review of all the documents in the record, we conclude that the Director properly revoked the 
approval of the petition, because the record does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies his initial 
evidence requirement. Specifically , he has not presented evidence ofhis one-time achievement that 
is a major, internationally recognized award, or documentation that satisfies at least three of the ten 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 2 
Documentation qlthe alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for ·which classffication is· 
sought. which require oulstanding achievements ql their members. as judged by recognized 
national or inlernalional experts in /heir disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he is a member of the 
He has submitted a certificate issued by the Chairman of the of the 
organization, indicating that he is "on state registration of masters and handicraftsmen." The record 
includes a letter from · the head of the association, stating that it "is open only to 
highly skilled masters who are among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the 
respective field of folk art." The letter provides that the Petitioner's membership was recommended 
by _______ and --·----~ 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. While . 
the letter from contains language that mirrors the regulation , neither 
nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim that the 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution , bylaws, or other official 
documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional evidence that 
accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection process, 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a one-time achievement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will discuss the evidence concerning the five criteria that he claims to meet. 
3 
.
· Maller <f R-G-
conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 
17j6, Inc. v. Uniled Stales All 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not 
accept prim~rily conclusory _statements). 
Moreover, although the record includes letters from and the individuals 
who purportedly recommended the Petitioner for membership in the the 
documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international experts in their 
fields. Other than the opening sentence, which provides the author's field of expertise, these two 
letters are identical, including the same wording when discussing the Petitioner's qualifications and 
achievements in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery . Based on the identical contents of these 
letters, the Petitioner has not shown that they reflect the authors' independent observations or that 
they confirm the authors' status as nationally or internationally recognized experts. While 
and resumes are in the record, the uncorroborated documents are insufficient to 
confirm the individuals are qualifying experts in their fields. Similarly, although 
claims that they are nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or 
offered sufficient evidence in support of his statement. 
Furthermore, the record includes inconsistent information relating to who had recommended the 
Petitioner for membership in the While provides that 
and recommended the Petitioner, a branch director of 
in Uzbekistan, indicates that it was who had recommended· him. The 
record contains inconsistent documentation relating to this criterion, which must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. The 
Petitioner has not done so here. Based on the above reasons, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence oft he alien ·s participation, either individually or on a panel. as a judge of the work <?f 
of hers in the same or an allied.field <?lspecUication for which clas.,·Uication is soitght. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this· finding. 
Specifically, according to a certificate from the of the 
of the Republic of Uzbekistan , the Petitioner was "a 
member of the jury and judged the work of other craftsmen to determine the winners" at the 2015 
exhibition held in Uzbekistan. The 
Petitioner has also submitted documentation confirming his participation as a judge in other events, 
including the 2014' ___ showcase. Accordingly, he has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of !he alien's original scient[flc. scholarly . artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions of mqjor sign[flcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3}(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he "has made a contribution of major significance to [the] field 
by virtue of his mastery of Uzbek traditional embroidery techniques and by adapt(ing] ancient 
4 
.
Maller of R-G-
embroidery techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." The record includes reference letters 
in support of this criterion. For example, letter states that the Petitioner's 
embroidery "is only slightly twisted, creating the impression of non-woven thread" and he "use[s] 
his innovative technique ... to achieve an unusual and attractive visual effect of creating an 
interplay of light and shine in his decorations that is both inspiring and uplifting." 
letter provides that the Petitioner has "made a contribution of major significance by virtue of his 
mastery of traditional embroidering techniques and their adaptation to contemporary materials and 
tastes." He further claims that the Petitioner's contributions "to the art of embroidery, decorative art, 
and cultural traditions of Uzbekistan are of major importance as the[y] have and will continue to 
influence the work of other artists" and that "[m]any of his unique creations have been displayed and 
sold at major exhibitions in Uzbekistan and Central Asia." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field; have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of m_ajor significance in the field. 
The record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss his work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and appreciated, they do 
not explain how specifically his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by ot_hers in the field. The 
documents in the record, including those not specifically mentioned, primarily contain attestations of 
the Petitione"r's status in the field without providing specific examples of how his contributions rise 
to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not 
explain how an individual's _ contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USC!S, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), afl'd 
in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc., 
745 F. Supp. at 17. Accordingly , the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the ·alien·.\' authorship . C?f scholarly articles in the field. in professional or mcy·or 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). \ . 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "published scholarly articles dedicated to the Uzbek 
traditional embroidery, its history and importance in Uzbek culture, in major media" and that he has 
"authored a treatise titled which 1s devoted to the history and technology· of 
embroidery in Uzbekistan." The record includes a book that lists the Petitioner as an 
editor. According to , the head of the publisher of the material, the 
Petitioner is also the author of the book and that the "[e]dition circulation is 1,000 copies." 
further states that the book "is devoted to the art of embroidery, its history and varieties" 
and that it "was distributed to regional libraries." The record includes evidence that the Petitioner 
has authored articles that are published in The Advice <~f Bukhara ·s Imam and Evening Bukhara. 
5 
.I 
Malter of R-G-
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he h~s not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. In general, scholarly articles report on original 
research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
express in the article.3 Usually, scholarly articles are written for learned persons in that field. In this 
case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that (which contains six pages) and the articles 
(which are each one page in length), without footnotes, endnotes, or bibliographies, qualify as 
scholarly. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. For example, he has offered a letter from the chief editor of Evening Bukhara, stating 
that the newspaper is "intended for wide general readership" and that "[t]he circulation of 
publication is 580 copies"; as well as a letter from the chief editor of The Advice cf Bukhara's Imam, 
indicating that the publication "has the circulation of 4,000 copies." The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that based <!n the circulation data, these two publications qualify as major me~ia. In 
addition, he has not presented adequate documentation confirming they constitute either professional 
or major trade publications . Based on the above reasons, the Petitioner has not met this criterion.4 
Evidence of-the display <?f the alien ·s work in the .field al artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record supports this determination. 
Specifically , the Petitioner has offered a diploma from the Chairman of the 
of , Russia, stating that in 2009, _the Petitioner exhibited his "high quality 
products made of silk and of his handmade original"design jewelry" at the exhibition 
; as well-as documents from the . confirming that in 
2016, he displayed his silk embroidery at the festival. Accordingly, tl)e Petitioner has satisfied this 
criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at ~east three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits dete1mination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submilled with Certain Form /-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI /-/4 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis .gov/sites/default/fi les/U SC IS/La ws/Memoranda/i- I 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pd f. 
~ The record includes documentation of the Petitioner"s authorship of materials after the filing of this petiiion in August 
2016. Thls evldence, however, does not demonstrate his' eligibility because he must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the classification have been satisfied from the time of the tiling and continuing through adjudication . 
See 8 C.F.R. § l03.2(b)(I). · 
6 
Matter of R-G-
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
h~s long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matier <?( Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc._ Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(I )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R_. § 2045(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner ~as not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. -
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-G-, ID# 1856892 (AAO Jan. 3, 2019) 
..I 
I' 
"1 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22652791 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received a one-time achievement or that he satisfied at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director incorrectly 
concluded that the Petitioner does not meet the high level of expertise required for this classification. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in I medicine I I medicine, and l _____ I I and previously worked for thel !Hospital. The Petitioner has not indicated 
that he received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
six of these criteria, relating to membership in associations, judging, original scientific contributions 
of major significance, authorship of scholarly articles, a leading or critical role, and a high salary. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles and judging. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three other claimed criteria, 
relating to a leading or critical role, membership in associations, and a high salary. Upon review of 
the record, we agree with the Director on the scholarly article and judging but conclude that the 
Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires "[d]ocumentation of the 
alien's membership in associations in the field for which is classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields." In order to demonstrate that membership in an association meets this 
criterion, a petitioner must show that the association requires outstanding achievement as an essential 
condition for admission to membership. 
2 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on being approved for the fellowship of 
the Academy of Physicians in Clinical Research (APCR). The Petitioner submitted a letter from the I I of the APCR, which states that fellowship of the APCR is reserved for the APCR 
members who have demonstrated their commitment to the organization, achievements as researchers, 
and leadership in the field of clinical research. The letter indicates that accepted criteria includes: (1) 
academic degree in clinical research or medicines development; (2) clinical research training 
certificates; (3) other advanced degrees and the American Board of Medical Specialties Board 
Certification; (4) publications in peer reviewed journals; (5) contributions to national or international 
conferences; (6) leadership in professional association related to clinical research; (7) participation in 
phase I-IV clinical trials; (8) a member of a medicines development team or the Medical Director of a 
clinical research site; (9) fostering clinical research or medicines development in the community; (10) 
academic positions in clinical research; (11) work in regulatory agencies related to clinical research 
and medicines development; (12) awards and recognitions for contributions to clinical research; (13) 
innovation; and (14) membership at the APCR. The record does not reflect that the fellowship of the 
APCR requires outstanding achievements of its members. Instead, the fellowship of the 
APCR requires education, training, professional association, publications, contributions, professional 
experience, innovation, and membership at the APCR. Membership requirements based on 
employment or activity in a given field, education, professional experience, professional association, 
publications, participation in conferences, contributions to a given field, or payment of dues to be a 
member do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. 
Although the evidence in the record demonstrates the Petitioner's fellowship of the APCR and that 
the individuals responsible for judging the fellowship of APCR are comprised of recognized national 
experts consistent with this regulatory criterion, the record does not reflect that outstanding 
achievements are required for the fellowship of the APCR. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner points out previously submitted documents to establish that he meets this criterion but 
does not provide additional arguments or additional documents. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885, at 
*1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise 
them on appeal). Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation." In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in 
which the alien was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
3 
The Petitioner claims that he has performed in a critical role forl I Hospital. The 
Petitioner submitted a letter from a medical doctor forl I Program atl I Hospital, 
which states that the Petitioner is a leading physician who played a critical role for the hospital's success 
in treating patients with I I diseases. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the Director 
of I services at _____ Hospital, which states that the Petitioner has participated 
in the Steering Committee and in obtaining the Accreditation 
for Hospital. The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence from the I I 
_ Hospital website about its accreditation but did not submit any independent, objective evidence 
demonstrating that I I Hospital has a distinguished reputation. For example, the record 
does not contain media coverage, evidence of significant awards, published ranking, or other sufficient 
evidence to establish that I I Hospital has been very successful in its hospital business 
and has a good reputation or thatl I Hospital is an esteemed and renowned hospital in the 
United States for treating patients hospitalized withl !diseases. 
The Petitioner also claims that he has performed in a critical role for the Massachusetts Cha ter of the 
American College of Physicians (ACP). The Petitioner submitted a letter from the of the 
Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP, which states that the Petitioner served as the Co-Chair ofth I I committee; was involved with advocacy efforts as a member of the Health and Public 
Policy Committee; and was invited to represent the ACP at thel I meetings to advocate in 
support of thel I bills. The Petitioner submitted information about the ACP and the Massachusetts 
Chapter of the ACP from the ACP website but did not submit any independent, objective evidence 
demonstrating that the Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP has a distinguished reputation. For example, 
the Petitioner did not submit any documentary evidence that distinguishes the Massachusetts Chapter of 
the ACP from other highly regarded professional associations or medical-specialty societies. 
Although the Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in critical roles for I ______ 
Hospital and the Massachusetts Chapter of the ACP, the Petitioner did not establish that they have a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in the field." 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his salary as a hospitalist at 
I I Hospital in I Massachusetts. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Director of 
Human Resources Department of I Hospital, which confirms that the Petitioner was 
employed as a hospitalist and that his salary for clinical services was $275,000 per year. The Petitioner 
also submitted Forms W-2 (wage and tax statements) for 2019 and 2020, which indicate that the 
Petitioner earned $298,641.12 in 2019 and $325,550.50 in 2020. 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on his annual salary of $275,000, which is more than 
$37,194 above the yearly prevailing wage of physicians and surgeons in the I I I I Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. The Petitioner submitted "Online Wage Library-
4 
Foreign Labor Certification Data Center Wage Search Results" indicating that the prevailing wage for 
fully competent (level 4) physicians and surgeons in the I Massachusetts 
and New Hampshire areas was $237,806 per year.1 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence 
showing that he has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in 
the field, not a salary that is above the amount paid to the majority of fully competent physicians and 
surgeons in the _________ Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. 
The Petitioner also submitted salary information for general internal medicine physicians, hospitalists, 
and physicians inl I Massachusetts, from various websites, including CareerOneStop, O*N et 
OnLine, Physician Compensation Report 2020, payscale, glassdoor, and salary.com. Regarding these 
various websites and report, these surveys measure the average statistics of general internal medicine 
physicians, hospitalists, or physicians inl I Massachusetts. These surveys only provides 
average salary data for general internal medicine physicians, hospitalists, and physicians in I 
Massachusetts, and do not identify the high-end salaries for those performing work with similar 
responsibilities as the Petitioner. The plain language of the regulation requires the Petitioner to 
establish his salary is high when compared to others in the field. As such, average statistics do not 
meet this requirement. 
The Petitioner compares his sala as a leading physician and the Lead of 
Hospital Department at Hospital to salaries of other physicians, surgeons, internists, 
and hospitalists in Massachusetts. He did not establish that he commanded a high salary 
in relation to others as a leading physician and the Lead. Both precedent and 
case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the 
field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he was not employed by I I Hospital as a 
___ or a lead physician and that thel I Lead is a voluntary role that he accepted du due to his experience as a physician-scientist focusing on the treatment ofl I 
in hospital settings. The Petitioner further asserts that this is not a compensated position within I Hospital and that all the salary he received during his tenure was based on his 
services as a hospitalist. The Petitioner submitted various documents to support the claim that he 
qualifies as an alien of extraordinary ability based on his roles, among other thin s, as a leadin 
physician and thel I Lead. Since the Petitioner claims that the 
I I Lead is a voluntary role, which is not a compensated position within 
Hospital, the record does not reflect that he has commanded a high salary for his services in relation 
to other leading physicians or the Lead at other hospitals. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
1 A "prevailing wage" is defined as "trade and public work wages paid to the majority of workers in a specific area." See 
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/prevailing-wage.html, copy incorporated into the record of proceeding. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has shown that he is a talented and accomplished 
physician specializing inl I medicineJ I medicine, and _______ but the 
record as a whole does not demonstrate a level of recognition that indicates the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24017952 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive aircraft model pilot, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility for 
the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enterthe United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserted that 
he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iv); however, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfies only the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts 
that he satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii) in addition to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the 
conclusion, that he satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(x). After reviewing the record in 
its entirety, we conclude that it does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of 
at least three criteria, for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 's] membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought. which require outstanding achievements of their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record contains a copy of the Petitioner's identification card from the Ministry of Youth and 
Sports of Ukraine, written in a language other than English, and a certified English translation of it. 
The translation of the identification card indicates that the Petitioner bears the title of Master of Sports 
of Ukraine in Aeromodelling. The Petitioner asserts that this satisfies 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner asserted that the Ministry of 
Youth and Sports of Ukraine awards the title of Master of Sports of Ukraine "to athletes ... for 
compliance with qualification rules and requirements to the relevant sport, approved in the manner 
prescribed by law, provided that there are three judges of national or international category in the panel 
of judges at all-Ukrainian competitions." The Petitioner also submitted a certificate from the 
Ukrainian Federation of Aeromodelling and Dron [sic] Sport in response to the RFE, indicating that 
the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine awarded the Petitioner the title of Master of Sports of 
Ukraine for finishing in first place at the 2017 Championship of Ukraine. The certificate further 
indicates that the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine is part of the Cabinet of Ministers of 
Ukraine. The certificate is supplemented with a copy of Appendix 1 to Qualification Norms and 
Requirements of the Ukrainian Unified Sports Classification of Non-Olympic Sports, specifically 
2 
aeromodelling sports, from the Ukrainian Federation of Aeromodelling, and a certified English 
translation of it. The appendix provides criteria for participation in junior and adult competitions, and 
it further indicates that certain performance results, such as" 1-3 at the Championship of Ukraine" or 
setting a national record in certain competitions are qualification criteria for the title of Master of 
Sports of Ukraine. 
The Director concluded thatthe evidence regarding the Petitioner's title of Master of Sp01is of Ukraine 
does not establish that he is a member in an association in the field that requires outstanding 
achievements of their members, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )(3 )(ii). Specifically, the Director 
found that the Ministry of Youth and Sports of Ukraine is a governmental body, not an association in 
the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that "[t]he title 'Master of Sp01is of Ukraine' ... is not easy to earn. 
One of the conditions for it to be awarded is that the applicant must participate in the competition, 
where the refereeing will be at least three judges with the international category." The Petitioner 
further asserts on appeal that the appendix submitted with the Petitioner's certificate in response to the 
Director's RFE establishes that there is "a clear list of qualifications a member must satisfy to become 
a Master of Sports of Ukraine" and that "there is a paiiicularprocedure implemented by the recognized 
international experts to evaluate evidence provided to prove those qualifications." The Petitioner 
alternately refers to the title of Master of Sports of Ukraine as "the status of Master of Sports." 
Although the record establishes that the Petitioner holds the title, or status, of Master of Sports of 
Ukraine issued by a governmental body, the record does not establish that such titleholders or status 
bearers are members of any particular association. Because the record does not address any particular 
association, it does not establish that the Petitioner is a member of an association in the field for which 
classification is sought. Therefore, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material a bout the [ noncitizen] in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the [non citizen's] work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date. and author of the 
material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains copies of three blog posts about the Petitioner, written in a language other than 
English, and certified English translations of them. In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner 
that the record does not establish that the blog posts are published material about the Petitioner in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, in part because the record does not 
establish that the blogs are widely read in order to constitute major media. The Petitioner provided 
letters from the editors of the blog post websites in response to the RFE, which provided general 
information about the authors of the blog posts, the dates of publication, and the number of views the 
posts received. The record also contains website statistics from a website called SimilarWeb. 
3 
The Director acknowledged the letters from the editors; however, the Director found that the record 
does not establish that the blog posts constitute major media as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii).1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that a prior, non-precedent decision, Matter of A-S-, 2018 WL 
1168942, *3 (AAO 2018), "states that submission by the petitioner an article [sic] which includes the 
title, date, and author and that constitutes published material about the petitioner relating to his career, 
together with evidence showing that the magazine qualifies as a major media, establishes that the 
petitioner satisfies the criteria." The Petitioner reasserts that the letters from the editors and website 
statistics establish that websites that published the blog posts are "top-ranked media in sports." 
The Petitioner refers to our non-precedent decision concerning a professional DJ and music producer 
who did not establish that he satisfied at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Moreover, Matter of A-S-stated 
that the petitioner in that case "provided evidence showing that the magazine qualifies as a major 
medium," without specifying the particular evidence in that record and how it demonstrated that 
magazine qualified as a major medium. Matter of A-S-, 2018 WL 1168942 at *3. Accordingly, the 
non-precedent decision Matter of A-S-provides neither controlling nor persuasive guidance in this 
matter. 
We first note that one of the three website statistics does not apply to the website that published a blog 
post about the Petitioner. Specifically, one of the websites bears the URL https://champion.com.ua, 
and the letter from the editor of that website describes Champion.com.ua as "the oldest Ukrainian 
sports site." However, the website statistics from Similar Web in the record relate to "champion.com," 
which the statistics describe as the 198th mostpopular"fashionand apparel" website and 4,908thmost 
popular website in the United States. Therefore, the record does not contain website statistics 
regarding the Ukrainian sports site at the URL https://champion.com.ua. 
The record does not otherwise establish that the three blog posts about the Petitioner were published 
by major media, as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The letters from the editors, as 
translated in the record, describe the websites as "the leading Ukrainian sports release," "a Ukrainian 
sports website dedicated to domestic and foreign sports," and "the oldest Ukrainian sports site," 
respectively. The website statistics in the record that relate to the two remaining websites indicate that 
they rank 206th and 2,685th in Ukraine, respectively, and that approximately 85% of both websites' 
traffic comes from Ukraine; however, the record does not contextualize those statistics and elaborate 
on how that information may establish that the websites are the type of major media contemplated by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For example, although the website statistics also indicate the average 
number of visits the websites receive monthly, the record does not explain how that a predominantly 
Ukrainian audience of any particular size is a substantial enough portion of the overall Ukrainian 
1 Although the Director found that at least one of the blog posts does not identify its author, the Petitioner clarifies on 
appeal the locations in the blogposts where the names of the authors appeared. We withdraw the Director's statement to 
the contra1y. 
4 
population for those statistics to indicate that the websites are major media. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F App'x, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing that evidence of published material 
in major media about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership 
is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material.). Because the record does not establish that the three websites that 
published blog posts about the Petitioner are major media, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the record does not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iii), and because the 
Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that the record satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(v )-(x), we need not determine whether the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) because, even if it did, it would not satisfy at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In summation, the record does not satisfy a least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which 
is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372895 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an event producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and contends that the Director did not conduct a 
proper final merits determination. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to published material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, his participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field, and his 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. We agree that the Petitioner has met the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
1 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy Memo), https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to dete1mine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
2 
The Petitioner asserted that he has received attention from major media publications, which discuss 
him and his work as an event producer. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has submitted 
some articles that appeared in publications, such as El Universo, El Comercio, and El Telegrafo, but 
determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the level of media attention he received is 
indicative of his status of as one of the very top event producers in the country. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in denying the petition by generally asserting 
that the evidence does not demonstrate that the level of media attention he received is indicative of his 
status as one of the very top event producers in the country. The Petitioner submitted 18 articles in 
which he is briefly quoted in publications. 17 of these 18 articles only cite, quote, or reference the 
Petitioner and do not discuss the Petitioner and his work as an event producer. These articles are about 
music concerts or live performance events, which were organized or produced by the production 
company where the Petitioner previously worked, and about singers, bands, or other musical groups 
to be performed at such concerts or events. Some of these articles also discuss ticket price, ticket sales 
location, and ticket sales dates, and these articles appear to be marketing or promotional materials for 
such concerts or events. In addition, 13 of these 18 articles do not provide the author(s) of these 
articles. These articles were published by El Universo, RPP, El Comercio, Metro Ecuador, El 
Telegrafo, Mariela TV, Taringa, Ecuador Times, and Expresiones. While the Petitioner submitted 
documentation showing that RPP, El Comercio, Metro Ecuador, and El Telegrafo are major media, 
the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to show that El Universo, Mariela TV, Taringa, 
Ecuardor Times, and Exresiones are professional publications, major trade publications, or other major 
media. Only 1 of these 18 articles, which was submitted in response to the request for evidence, 
discusses the Petitioner and his work as a media director, this article was published in El Comercio, 
which was shown to be major media, and this article includes the author. The article mentions the 
Petitioner as a media director of a production company who brought thel I to a stage in 
I I Ecuador. The article further states that the Petitioner was hired by the production company 
when he was 22 years old because he "talked concentrated," "had a virtue," and "knew how to listen." 
This article does not demonstrate that the Petitioner was hired by the production company because he 
is known to be an outstanding event producer or because of his status as one of the very top event 
producers in Ecuador. We conclude that the publication of a single article in major media, which 
discusses the Petitioner as a media director who brought a popular American I Ito a stage in a 
city in Ecuador, does not indicate that the Petitioner has achieved national or international acclaim in 
the entertainment industry as an event producer and is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner asserted that he previously participated as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
allied filed. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted two letters from ________ 
Extra Radio S.A., which state that the Petitioner served as a jury that selects an artist to receive an 
award for musical career at the sixth edition of the Awards in 2019. The letters also state 
that the wards have been held since 2014 and that it is an event that rewards the talent of 
the Ecuadorian performers. The Director determined that although the Petitioner has acted as a judge, 
the record did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim resulted 
in his selection to serve as a judge of the work of others in the field. The Director added that it is not 
unusual for professionals to serve on various panels. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he had to follow a specific criterion to select the winner, including 
years in the industry, career achievements, stage presence, and music tracks released. The Petitioner 
further asserts that he was chosen due to his professional career and achievements. However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that a single instance of selecting the winner to receive the award for musical 
career at thel !Awards ceremony reflects sustained acclaim at the national or international 
level or elevates his standing as one of few top event producers in the field. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has displayed his work at live events and productions in Ecuador and 
Latin America. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted copies of about 48 access/backstage 
badges showing the production company or authorized personnel for different music concerts and 
promotional materials for such concerts. The Director noted that only two of these badges show the 
Petitioner's name. The Petitioner also submitted two letters of support from the Director of a radio 
station and the Director of a promotion, marketing, and advertising company. One letter states that 
the Petitioner developed or worked together with various national artists, produced international shows 
and important events, and made a great contribution in the field of entertainment. The other letter 
states that the Petitioner worked in partnership with a promotion company, which produces the tours 
of prominent artists, and that the Petitioner displayed his professionalism and knowledge while 
producing each concert. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has produced events for 
musical groups for their stage performances but found that while these events may be considered 
artistic showcases, they displayed the artist's work, not the event producer's work. As such, the 
Director determined that the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate a level of distinction that sets 
the Petitioner apart from others in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the fact that the Petitioner has been selected to produce 
distinguished productions and organizations indicates that not just any event producer could have 
performed this work and he was, therefore, selected in recognition of his superior standing in the field. 
However, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support this claim. As noted above, the 
Petitioner provided various articles about music concerts or live performance events that were 
organized by a production company for which he worked as an event producer. The Petitioner 
submitted an article, which was published in El Comercio and mentions the Petitioner as a media 
director of the production company who brought a popular American! Ito a stage inl I 
Ecuador. The article states that the Petitioner was hired by the production company when he was 22 
years old because of his virtue, focus, and listening skills. This article does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner was hired by the production company because of his superior standing in the field or his 
status as one of the very top event producers in Ecuador. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also contends that because the Director did not consider the evidence related 
to the display, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he is an individual of extraordinary ability. In the request for evidence, the Director acknowledged 
that the Petitioner submitted copies of over 40 access/backstage badges showing the production 
company or authorized personnel for different artists or concerts and two letters of support as evidence 
of the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. As noted above, in his decision, the 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has produced events for musical groups for their stage 
performances but determined that these events displayed the artist's work, not the event producer's 
work. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he displayed his work as an event producer at various 
concerts or events. The Petitioner organized concerts or events for musicians and musical groups, and 
4 
the work of these musicians and musical groups was displayed at the concerts or events. The Petitioner 
did not show that he displayed his producing skills rather than overseeing the work of others. The 
Petitioner did not show that his producing contributions resulted in his work being displayed at 
concerts or events rather than musical talents and performance skills of musicians and musical groups 
resulted in their work being displayed at their concerts or events. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has performed in a leading or critical role for I and the 
Municipal District of I The Petitioner submitted a letter from a singer, producer, director, and 
musical composer of l promotional materials showing the Petitioner's role with I 
__ from 1993 to 2006, and materials about I I reputation. The Director noted 
that the Petitioner's many roles demonstrated his experience and skills as an event producer but 
determined that the Petitioner has not showed that his work is of such significance that it led to the 
successes of various productions and musical groups. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not directly address the reasons for his 
conclusion that the Petitioner's leading or critical role does not support an overall finding of sustained 
national or international acclaim and that he is one of the very top event roducers from his home 
country of Ecuador. It appears that the Petitioner was the mana er of a popular 
Ecuadorian! lwhich was formed in I Ecuador, in ________ Although 
the record shows that the Petitioner performed in a critical role for the success of the Ecuadorian which which won several awards for its popularity and excellence in the music entertainment industry 
from 1999 to 2008, the record does not show that the Petitioner continues to maintain a comparable 
level of acclaim in the field as a manager. 
Regarding his leading role for the Municipal District of I the Petitioner submitted published 
materials about various cultural events, festivals, and activities held in an and an alliance between I land a cultural institute to strengthen the topic of culture in These articles reference the 
Petitioner as the Secretary of Culture of the Municipality. While these articles show that the Petitioner 
performed in a leading role for the Municipal District of I as the Secretary of Culture to promote 
culture within the district, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate thatl I 
has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner asserts that the position of the Secretary of Culture for 
the Municipal District of is comparative to being the Cultural Director of I being 
the center of the arts and culture of the United States. However, the Petitioner did not supplement the 
record with independent, objective evidence showing thatl !garnered an excellent reputation as 
the center of the arts and culture of Ecuador. The Petitioner did not present sufficient documentation 
to establish the standings or statures of I 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). It appears that the Petitioner has extensive experience and skills as an event 
producer, a media director, a manager of al I and the Secretary of Culture of the Municipal 
District of I As an event producer, the Petitioner has produced many concerts for various musicians 
or musical groups in Ecuador. As the Secretary of lmre of the Municipal District of the 
Petitioner organized various cultural events for However, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
5 
significance of his work as an event producer in the entertainment industry is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Moreover, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden 
to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 3, 2024 In Re: 29123989 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cardiovascular biologist, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies for a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement at 
section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that the Petitioner seeks classification under section 
203(b )(2) of the Act, which relates to individuals of exceptional ability in the arts, the sciences, or 
business, and to members of the professions holding an advanced degree. The national interest waiver 
of the job offer requirement applies only to that classification. 
But the record shows that the Petitioner does not seek classification under section 203(b )(2) of the 
Act. Rather, the petition form and accompanying documents show that the Petitioner seeks a different 
classification, as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. This 
classification involves different requirements with different eligibility criteria, outlined in the 
regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). The classification does not include a job offer requirement, and 
therefore there is no need to establish eligibility for a national interest waiver of that requirement. 
We agree with the Petitioner's argument on appeal, previously asserted in response to a request for 
evidence, that the Director adjudicated the petition under a different immigrant classification than the 
one the Petitioner seeks in this proceeding.1 We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter so that the Director can render an initial decision under the correct classification­
extraordinary ability, under section 203(b )( l )(A) of the Act-and the applicable regulatory 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 While the denial notice quotes a letter in the record regarding the Petitioner's work in cardiovascular biology, the notice 
also erroneously refers to the Petitioner as "an Entrepreneur ... in the Business Administration field." This reference 
raises the question of whether the Petitioner based the decision at least in part on a different record ofproceeding relating 
to a different petitioner. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23070825 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 4, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal as moot. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicate that the Petitioner has adjusted to 
permanent resident status through another proceeding . Because the Petitioner's status has been 
adjusted to permanent resident, further pursuit of the matter at hand is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 29854666 Date: JAN. 4, 2024 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the reinsurance field. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy at 
least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled 
only one (leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) of the four claimed criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains he meets three additional evidentiary categories. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the ~I---~ 
. USCIS determines if the association for which the ~-----------------~ person claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged 
by recognized experts in that field. 1 The petitioner must show that membership in the association 
requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 2 
At the outset, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record reflect, his eligibility as an "Associate" 
3member ofI I. Instead, the Petitioner asserts his "Honorary" membership with I I 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanuaL 
2 Id. 
3 We concur with the Director's determination that "Associate" membership withl Idoes not meet the eligibility 
requirements for this criterion. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 T&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F. 
3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice ofadopting and affi1ming the decision has been "universally accepted 
by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F. 3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight 
circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision as long as they give "individualized 
consideration" to the case). 
2 
qualifies him for this criterion. Associations may have multiple levels of membership. 4 The level of 
membership afforded to the person must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, 
recognized national or international experts judged the person as having attained outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The Petitioner initially provided a letter from N-G-C-G-, executive director ofI I, who 
confirmed the Petitioner's honorary membership "due to his experience, reputation and special merits 
as one of the leaders in the industry" and "has contributed his knowledge and experience in the 
development of the reinsurance industry in Colombia." In addition, the Petitioner offered! I 
bylaws reflecting that "Honorary Associates are those who, by special merits and for the services 
rendered to the Associates and the Reinsurance activity, are considered worthy of such title by the 
unanimous decision of the Board of Directors."6 In response to the Director's request for evidence, 
the Petitioner submitted a letter from L-E-R-C-, chairman of the board forl I who citedI I bylaws, highlighted the Petitioner's professional achievements, and included I I 
background and history. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that honorary membership withl Irequires outstanding 
achievements. The bylaws do not farther define "special merits and for the services rendered" or 
indicate how special merits and services rendered are tantamount to outstanding achievements. 
Likewise, neither letter provides an explanation or definition ofI I interpretation of special 
merits and services rendered or farther elaborates showing that special merits and services rendered 
are comparable to the regulatory requirement of outstanding achievements. Without farther 
information, the Petitioner did not establish that honorary membership with I I requires 
outstanding achievements. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts judge honorary 
membership for I l According to I I bylaws, honorary membership requires an 
"unanimous decision of the Board of Directors. "7 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
the board of directors is comprised of recognized national or international experts. In response to the 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a certificate from N-G-C-G- indicating thatl I board 
of directors includes re resentatives from various com anies, includin I _ I 
. However, N-G-C-G- did L...--------------------------,-------,--' 
not specifically identify the representatives, indicate whether~--~board of directors requires 
recognized national or international experts, or otherwise show that the board of directors consists of 
recognized national or international experts. The issue for this criterion is whether the individuals 
who determine membership are recognized national or international experts rather than the reputation 
of the companies who employ them. We are not persuaded that every employee who works for a 
recognized company is also a recognized national or international expert in the field. Although the 
4 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
5 Id. (providing that as a possible example, general membership in an international organization for engineering and 
technology professionals may not meet the requirements of the criterion; however, if that same organization at the fellow 
level requires, in part, that a nominee have accomplishments that have, for example, contributed impmiantly to the 
advancement or application of engineering, science, and technology, and that a council of experts and a committee of 
current fellows judges the nominations for fellows, that higher, fellow level may be qualifying.) 
6 See chapter III, article 20. 
7 See chapter III, article 20. 
3 
Petitioner submitted screenshots regarding the companies, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
representatives from the companies who are onl Iboard of directors are viewed as recognized 
national or international experts in their fields. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working in the field. 8 At the outset, the Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal. 
Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, 
we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(11) (requiring all requested 
evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter o_f Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) 
( declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of 
the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the 
denial"). 
At both initial filing and in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted: 
An individual working in the Insurance industry in Colombia typically earns around 
4,7000,000.00 COP per month. Salaries range from 1,740,000.00 COP (lowest 
average) to 9,070,00.00 COP (highest) (COP $108,840,000.00 annually). This is the 
average monthly salary including housing, transport, and other benefits. 
The Petitioner provided screenshots from salaryexplorer.com regarding "Insurance Average Salaries 
in Colombia 2023" reflecting that average monthly salary of4,700,000 COP. However, the Petitioner 
did not offer comparable salary information pertaining to the Petitioner's specific occupation. 
According to the Petitioner's resume and employment documentation, the Petitioner was employed as 
an "Executive Vice President" with'---------------------------' from July 2001 -February 2018. 9 Thus, in order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
he received a high salary in relation to other executive vice presidents in the insurance field in 
Colombia. 10 Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See 
Matter o_f Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The comparison of the Petitioner's executive vice president salary to the average salary of all 
8 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
9 The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his receipt of profit distributions froml Iand a settlement agreement from I I .______, 
10 The screenshots from salaryexplorer.com included the average salaries for a sampling of insurance occupations, none of 
which reflected a high salary for an executive vice president. 
4 
individuals working in the insurance industry in Colombia is not sufficient to satisfy the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. 11 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships and high salary. 
Although the Petitioner also claims eligibility for the original contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve these issues. 12 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely 
restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2021 WL 
2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining 
that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage ofprospective immigrants"). See also Hamal 
v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one ofthe most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing 
him among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
11 The Petitioner also did not offer evidence showing that his profit distributions or settlement agreement were significantly 
high remuneration as an executive vice president in the insurance industry in Colombia. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19550253 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 05, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economics instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professor of economics who has more recently been self-employed. She 
was issued a candidate of science degree in economic science in 2008 by the Supreme Certifying 
Commission of Ukraine, and previously earned a master of economics degree from the I I I I She states that she intends to continue to teach and publish research 
in the field of economics, but also submitted an employment offer from a business in New Jersey for 
a vaguely defined position. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. We agree with the Director's determinations regarding these 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original 
contributions of major significance to the field and a leading or critical role. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we find that the evidence does not establish that she meets either of these 
criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner focuses on several academic and career achievements which she asserts meet the 
requirements of this criterion. One of these is her thesis for her candidate of sciences degree, 
2 
' which introduced economic ~--------------------------~ proposals she asserts were implemented by local and re:ional governments in Ukraine. In support, 
she submitted a letter from a member of the I ~ ICity Council which acknowledges the 
Petitioner's work with this body. The letter provides three examples of the privatization of specific 
businesses for which the Petitioner participated as an expert consultant in public meetings, and also 
notes that she played the same role regarding a city-wide policy on the rent of semi-basements. In 
addition, the letter states that her proposals also led the city council to form a system to monitor the 
use of communal property, and that "in general" she was actively involved in the reform of property 
relations at the city level. Although this evidence shows that she had some influence on aspects of 
economic practice and policy for a major regional city in Ukraine, it does not show that her proposals 
were widely implemented, or that other economic scholars or advisors were influenced by this work. 
Additional evidence of the Petitioner's work with governmental bodies includes one of several reviews 
of her thesis that were written b "o onents" as part of the awarding of her degree. In particular, a 
review authored b Head of the Regional Branch of the State Property Fund of 
Ukraine in~-----~ notes that the "practical importance of individual results of the study is 
confirmed by... implementation in practical activities at the regional level, in particular: Regional 
Branch of the State Property Fund i ~-----------------~ Another review 
provides slightly more detail, indicating that her "practical recommendations on improving the 
mechanism of state regulation of the processes of property relations reform" were used by this body 
in implementing state policy. However, neither these reviews nor other evidence in the record 
provides detail on which proposals included in the Petitioner's thesis were implemented, or the nature 
of their overall impact on privatization reform policies in the region. The fact that some of her 
proposals were implemented at the regional level is not sufficient to demonstrate that this contribution 
was of major significance to the broader field of economics. 
The Petitioner also refers to all eight of the reviews of her thesis which were conducted by "opponents" 
as part of the process in the award of her candidate of science degree as evidence of "acclaim from 
many experts in the field." We note that while all of these individuals are experts in economics, the 
reviews were done solely for the purpose of evaluating whether the Petitioner's thesis showed that she 
was deserving of the degree. Although the record does not include information about the standards 
for awarding the candidate of science degree, many of the reviews mention the novelty of her work 
and her maturity as an economist. For example,! loti I University 
describes the dissertation as "a successful combination in the study of theoretical and methodological 
issues and applied ones," and concludes that "is an independent research on a topical topic, has a 
proper theoretical level, is noted for scientific novelty and practical value" and that the Petitioner 
therefore deserves her degree. 1 While this evidence clearly shows that this thesis was considered an 
original contribution and of sufficient practical value to justify the awarding of a degree, it does not 
demonstrate the dissertation's significance beyond the scope of the degree awarding process. 
Additional evidence regarding the significance of the Petitioner's thesis, as well as her other published 
work in the field of economics, consists of references to her and her work in the publications of other 
economists. Some of these references simply list the Petitioner's name among others credited with 
1 All of the reviews of the Petitioner's thesis, and other reference letters in the record that were written on her behalf: were 
carefully reviewed, including those not explicitly mentioned in this decision. 
3 
publishing on a particular topic, such as a 2015 paper from Scientific Bulletin of Polissia which lists 
her among 10 "national scientists" who have written on property issues. Others refer to a specific 
paper published by her which was used to support their work. We note that several of these indicate 
that they were written by students, and it is not apparent that some were published in scholarly journals 
or presented at conferences. While a high rate of citations to a scholar's published work, or widespread 
commentary from others in the field, may be probative of the significance of their contribution to the 
field, 2 here the Petitioner has not shown that either the quality or quantity of these references is 
indicative of contributions of major significance. 
Another group of achievements highlighted by the Petitioner are those she made to thel I ~---------~I where she served as dean of the economics faculty from 2009 to 2012. 
The evidence shows that in this role and as an assistant professor, and in addition to administrative 
duties, she created program courses and study aids, established an internship program with local 
businesses, and served as an advisor for several graduate students. While the Director concluded, and 
we agree, that this evidence was sufficient to demonstrate her leading role forD (as will be further 
discussed below), it does not show that the impact of these achievements reached beyond0and its 
students and contributed to the broader field of economics. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her activities with the non-governmental organization 
(NGO).__ __________ _. A letter froml I describes the Petitioner's creation 
of business plans for several businesses, and her participation in advocacy efforts on behalf of the 
group with the local and national governments. A second letter from I I submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), adds that she consulted with local entrepreneurs 
and businesses on tax and other issues, and worked with other NGOs to promote entrepreneurship 
amongst women and young people in the area. The Petitioner's aid to local businesses and efforts to 
promote rtrereneurship in the region is commendable, but these two letters do not show that her 
work with made an impact other than to the businesses she directly helped. Notably, the record 
does not include evidence to demonstrate the wider impact of her advocacy on the actions or policies 
of regional or national governmental bodies. 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner refers to several of our non-precedent decisions, focusing on the 
evidence presented in those cases by petitioners seeking classification as noncitizens of extraordinary 
ability. These decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers 
in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner 
points out that in Matter of J-L-, ID# 800261 (AAO Jan. 25, 2018) we considered reference letters as 
probative evidence of"the importance of the EB-1 Petitioner's work," and therefore that the opponent 
reviews of her thesis should be given greater consideration. But the portions of the letters quoted in 
Matter of J-L-describe contributions in detail that went beyond that petitioner's employer and were 
implemented throughout the industry. As described above, the letters submitted on the Petitioner's 
behalf describe her consultations to specific businesses, and only briefly mention the implementation 
of her proposals at the local and regional governmental level without providing detail or context. It is 
therefore insufficient to demonstrate that those contributions were of major significance in her field. 
2 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
4 
After review of the evidence noted above, and other evidence in the record submitted in support of 
this criterion, we conclude that while the Petitioner has demonstrated original contributions to the field 
of economics, she has not established that any of her contributions were of major significance to the 
field. We therefore conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they played either a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment 
has or had a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the noncitizen 
is ( or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), 
in fact, leading. For a role to be considered critical, the evidence must establish that the noncitizen 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her roles withe=] andD Regarding her role as 
the dean of the economics faculty atD from 2009 to 2012, the Director concluded that while it was 
a leading role, the evidence was not sufficient to show that D has a distinguished reputation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence concerning certain graduates of0 should have been 
considered despite its source, and that information from a website should have been considered despite 
the evidence's lack of information about its source. 
While we agree with the Director's concerns rgaring evidence submitted from Wikipedia, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that has a distinguished reputation even when this 
evidence is considered. This evidence includes information about two graduates ofp one who has 
been the mayor ofllfor 10 years and another who is an associate professor at I I luniver~ evidence shows that two of the institution's graduates have had successful 
careers after beginning their post-secondary studies ate=] but does not show that it has a 
distinguished reputation among colleges and universities in Ukraine. Other evidence includes an 
article describingDs history, facilities and educational, but as the Director noted in his decision, 
no information was provided about the source of this material, such as a website address, which would 
allow for verification of its content. On appeal, the Petitioner identifies its source as the website for I t a name which is included in some of the images accompanying the article, but provides 
no further information about this entity. More importan~neither this article nor other information 
in the record provided from other websites suggests thatLJ has a distinguished reputation. None of 
the evidence indicates thatD is widely recognized as a prestigious institution or is highly ranked 
among Ukrainian and European universities. The I I article concludes only that it "is an 
institution that provides a thorough and solid knowledge to its students," a phrase which could be used 
to describe any institution of higher learning. The Wikipedia information indicates thatO received 
a nomination for "Temple of Science" designation in 2005, but very little information is provided 
about this nomination or its meaning. Upon review of the totality of this evidence, we conclude that 
it does not establish that D has a distinguished reputation. 
Turning to the Petitioner's role fore=] the Director concluded that it was neither leading nor critical, 
and that the evidence did not show that it has a distinguished reputation. As noted above, the evidence 
5 
of her role for this NGO includes two letters froml I whom a news article names as the 
head of the organization. In her first letter, she names several businesses for which the Petitioner 
provided business plans, and also states that the Petitioner was "a participant in all mass events to 
defend the interests of entrepreneurs before various bodies of state power and local self-government." 
In the second letter,I I again notes the Petitioner's participation in "mass events" to advocate 
for entrepreneurs, and her consultations with entrepreneurs on tax and other business issues. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that these letters show that she was an active member ofD and that 
the organization "has implemented Petitioner's innovative ideas for helping its members to develop 
businesses." We agree that the evidence shows that she was an active member of the organization, 
andl Is first letter describes her as a co-author of an appeal to the Ukrainian prime minister 
regarding labor legislation and an idea to create something called the ~--------~ 
However, the record does not include sufficient information about the outcome of these projects and 
how they impacted the mission, operations or standing ofc=Jto show that the Petitioner's role was 
critical to the organization's activities. The letters indicate thaD has undertaken many such "mass 
events," and does not show that the Petitioner's participation in the two specific projects described or 
in other projects affected the organization's activities to the extent that her role was critical. 
We farther note that while the Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown thatc=Jhas 
a distinguished reputation, this requirement is not addressed on appeal. The RFE response included a 
single article posted on the website I I otj f 2018 which interviews I I 
about the organization's appeal to a committee of the Ukrainian legislature regarding issues of 
entrepreneurship, but the article simply describes c=J, s advocacy with other entrepreneurial 
organizations and does not distinguish it from these other NGOs. As such, we agree with the 
Director's conclusion that the evidence does not establish thatc=J has a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20636111 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 5, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agriculture teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(1XA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility for 
the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enterthe United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
We first note that the record does not establish what the field of endeavor would be. On the Form 
1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner stated that the job title is "vocational 
agriculture teacher," and that the duties include "training next generation of graduates in [ m ]olecular 
[b ]iology and [b ]iotechnology as related to [ a ]griscience." In a letter submitted in support of the 
petition, the Petitioner stated that he "seeks employment in the area of [ m ]olecular [b ]iology and 
[b]iotechnology ... in accord with [his] research andfieldofrecognition." However, the record does 
not clarify whether the "vocational agriculture teacher's" field of endeavor would be working as an 
instructor of vocational skills for agricultural workers, working as an academic professor of science in 
a college or university, combining academic instruction with continued research in molecular biology 
and biotechnology in a college or university, or other possible fields of endeavor. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserted that 
he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (v)-(vi), and (viii)-(ix); however, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied none of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he 
satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ii), (v)-(vi), and (viii)-(ix). After reviewing the 
record in its entirety, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria, for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation of the [ noncitizen] 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director acknowledged thatthe record establishes that the Petitioner is a member of the American 
Association for Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Association for Career and Technical 
Education (ACTE). However, the Director advised the Petitioner that the record did not establish that 
the AAAS or the ACTE require outstanding achievements of their members in a request for evidence 
(RFE) and requested the Petitioner to submit such evidence. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided additional information regarding the AAAS and the ACTE in response to the RFE; 
however, the Director noted that the inf 01mation did not establish that either the AAAS or the ACTE 
2 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Director concluded that the record did not establish that either the AAAS or the 
ACTE satisfied the plain language of the criterion of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that his memberships in the AAAS and the ACTE satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), without elaborating on how the Director may have erred in 
concluding the contrary. Instead, the Petitioner states that the AAAS is a "[p]]re eminent association 
providing policy leadership and peer engagement in [ s ]cience, technology, and public policy" and that 
the ACTE is a "[p]]reeminent association providing leadership in technological education at the 
secondary and post-secondary levels." 
Even if we consider the AAAS and the ACTE to be preeminent associations, the plain language of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) states that only membership in associations in the field for 
which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the disciplines or fields satisfy the criterion. The 
Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that either the AAAS or the 
ACTE require outstanding achievements of their members. Therefore, the Petitioner's memberships 
in the AAAS and the ACTE do not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen] 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record contains copies of articles co-authored by the Petitioner, which he asserts are under peer 
review. The Director acknowledged those articles; however, in the RFE the Director requested the 
Petitioner to provide evidence that the articles were published in professional publications, trade 
publications, or other major media, including circulation information specific to the media format in 
which it was published. The Petitioner's RFE response reiterated assertions already in the record, 
without providing the evidence the Director requested. Because the record did not contain evidence 
that the articles co-authored by the Petitioner were published in professional publications, trade 
publications, or other major media, the Director concluded that the record did not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references "[t]hree research manuscripts in review ... being revised for 
publication," that he was the co-inventor of a patent assigned tol I University, 
and that he submitted two additional patent applications. The Petitioner also states, "Ph.D. dissertation 
published." The Petitioner further references "[p]]resentations in scientific conferences and meetings." 
None of the information referenced by the Petitioner on appeal relates to evidence of his authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field published in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. Manuscripts "being revised for publication" have not been published as of the date of filing 
therefore, they cannot establish eligibility. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Patents filed with the U.S. 
Patent and Trademark Office are neither "scholarly articles in the field" nor "in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Similarly, simply stating 
that the Petitioner's Ph.D. dissertation has been published does not establish that it is a scholarly article 
in the field published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Likewise, the 
3 
Director noted that the Petitioner referenced that he "co-authored conference presentations" in 
response to the Director's RFE but thatthe Petitioner did not submit evidence to support that assertion. 
The Petitioner's reference to "[p ]resentations in scientific conferences and meetings" on appeal is not 
supported by corroborating evidence to establish the Petitioner satisfies the criterion relating to 
authorship of scholarly, published articles, nor does the Petitioner specifically address how the 
Director may have erred in reviewing any infonnation in the record. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act. In summation, because the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has written scholarly articles in the field published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, it does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the [ noncitizen] has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record contains the Petitioner's curriculum vitae and recommendation letters from a professor 
emeritus of biology at _.University and from a professor of biology at I I University. In the RFE, the Director infonned the Petitioner that neither the 
curriculum vitae nor the recommendation letters establish that the Petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and the Director 
requested the Petitioner to provide such evidence. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner referenced 
information already in the record including his curriculum vitae and the recommendation letters. The 
Petitioner also addressed funding he received and he asserted that he continued to teach during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Director concluded that the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation; therefore, it did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that his graduate and post-doctoral research work and his activities 
"[t]raining school students in [ v ]ocational [ a ]griculture and [b ]iotechnology atl I School 
District during 2017-2021" satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner does 
not elaborate on how the Director may have erred in concluding that the record did not establish that 
the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation. 
For a leading role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F App 'x, https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual. 
The Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not support the conclusion, that he led ___ I luniversi or a de artment thereof, while he was conducting graduate research; or that he 
led The University o r department thereof, while he worked as a post-doctoral 
research associate; or that he led the __ School District, or a department thereof, while he was 
"[t]rainingschool students in [v ]ocational [a]gricultureand[b ]iotechnology." Therefore, the record does 
not establish that the Petitioner performed in a leading role at any of the organizations he identified. 
4 
For a critical role, we consider whether the record establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of an organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. The Petitioner also does not elaborate how he contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of any of the referenced organization's activities, or to the outcome of a 
division or department of any of the referenced organizations. Therefore, the record does not establish 
that the Petitioner performed in a critical role at any of the organizations he identified. See id. 
Moreover, even if the record established that the Petitioner performed either a leading or critical role 
at any of the organizations he identified, which it does not, the record does not establish how any of 
the organizations have a distinguished reputation through documentation of their eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. See id. Because the record does not establish that the Petitioner performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, it 
does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner that the record did not establish that he commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, and 
the Director requested such evidence. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided a photocopy of 
his 2020 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, indicating that his gross annual income was 
$64,001.45. The Petitioner also submitted information regarding his income in the prior full tax year 
of 2019, and six paystubs from the beginning of 2021 in response to the RFE. The Petitioner also 
submitted a copy of an excerpt from an agreement between thel I Public School District #1 
and the I I Education Association for the period of 2019-2020, in relevant part setting the 
salary schedule for foll-time teachers of the district. The agreement states that "[t]he minimum salary 
for teachers employed by the District on a nine month basis is ... [$]55,450" for the highest level of 
qualification, "MS+ 3 2." The Director acknowledged the information regarding the Petitioner's 
income; however, the Director noted that "[t]he record contains no objective earnings data 
demonstrating that you have commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field," citing Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N.D. Ill. 1995). Because the record did not establish how the Petitioner's income relates 
to that of others in the field, the Director concluded that the record did not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The extent of the Petitioner's assertions on appeal regarding the criterion at 8 C.F. R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix) 
is: "[a]s per the Teachers Union contract for the School District, I drew the highest salaries allowed 
in the contract based on educational qualification and experience." 
The Petitioner's reliance on the above-referenced agreement between the I I Public School 
District# 1 and thel !Education Association for the period of2019-2020 is misplaced. First, 
as the Director explained, the record does not contain evidence of the actual salaries earned by others 
in the field, to which the Petitioner's salary may be compared. Specifically, the recorddoesnotcontain 
evidence of what other "vocational agriculture teachers" with "MS+32" qualifications-or any other 
level of qualification-actually earn, to compare to the Petitioner's income in order to detennine 
5 
whether he commands a high salary or significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to 
others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Second, the record does not contain a copy of the 
agreement for the period of 2020-2021, to address the Petitioner's income earned in the autumn and 
winterof2020 as reflected in his annual Form W-2 for that year. Third, the Petitionermischaracterizes 
the import of the agreement. The copy of the agreement-in its excerpted form-in the record 
indicates that the Petitioner's income during 202 0 was greater than "[ t]he minimum salary for teachers 
employed by the District" for the period of 2019-2020, notthathe "drew the highest salaries allowed." 
On the contrary, the copy of the agreement-in its excerpted form-does not appear to limit what "the 
highest salaries allowed" may be. 
We note that, after the Petitioner filed the appeal, he submitted a copy of an employment offer letter 
to him from University dated December 2022. The offer letter indicates that his position title 
would be "Scientist III," his employment would begin in February 2023, and his annual salary would 
be $68,000. However, the offer letter does not elaborate on the job duties of a "Scientist III" and the 
record does not establish how a salary of $68,000 is a high salary or significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the "Scientist III" field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix). 
Because the record does not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (viii), and (ix), and 
because the Petitioner does not assert, and the record does not supp01i the conclusion, that the record 
satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii), or (x), we need not determine whether the 
record satisfies the criteria at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or(v) because, even if it did, it would not satisfy 
at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v). In summation, the record does not satisfy a least three of 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25 ( 197 6) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which 
is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 4310156 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 6, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in special education, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a doctorate in applied biology from the University ofl I Centre for Research 
in Mental Retardation (2003). According to the Petitioner's CV, at the time the instant petition was 
filed on September 18, 201 7, she was a doctoral candidate in special education, specializing in the 
area of emotional and behavioral disorders in children at the elementary and middle school level. The 
Petitioner's doctoral research at the University ofC7 involved the development and testing of the 
behavioral assessment tool I I a I I application ( app) for students and teachers 
in which both parties rate student behavior, and teacher ratings are stored to provide feedback and 
track progress. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, the 
Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets an additional evidentiary criterion, discussed below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the testimonial letters and citations to her work demonstrate her eligibility 
for this criterion. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references her submission of letters from colleagues and other educators and 
experts regarding her original contributions in her field. She asserts that the Director discounted the 
submitted reference letters. 2 We find no error in the Director's analysis of the support letters. The 
Director considered their content and concluded that they did not specify how the Petitioner's 
contributions rise to a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). The opinions of 
experts in the field are not without weight and we have considered them below. 
The Petitioner rovided several ex ert letters in support of this criterion.~ _______ ....., Chair 
of the College, indicates that the Petitioner "has developed 
interventions that have proven to be a good option to correct disruptive behaviors and 
~i-n-cr_e_a-se-ti_m_e_o~n academic engagement." I l an English professor atl I 
College in Texas, states that the Petitioner's "work to educate school professionals to 
implement simpl .__ ____ __. interventions based onl t has benefitted school students 
with problem behavior and oor academic erformance. a neurology professor 
at the University of states that he is aware that the Petitioner and 
her research group "have been successfully using th .__ ____________ _. intervention 
to correct behavior and academic problems encountered in the K-12 public school students." These 
letters summarize the Petitioner's research achievements and broadly discuss the potential impact of 
her research in the field of special education. However, they do not establish that her original 
contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within this field. 
The Petitioner also provided letters from several colleagues and other ~ors. I~---~ ~----___.I professor emerita of special education at the University ofL_J asserts that the 
Petitioner's "future inquiry will contribute substantially to the field of education," and describes the 
Petitioner as "an important contributor to the development ofl ~ applications 
aimed at improving student behavior and academic outcomes." I I an assistant 
professor of special education at the University ofO states that the Petitioner's notable 
accomplishments include having "worked on a number of projects to refine the use of1 I to 
improve services for students with disabilities."! l who was a postdoctoral fellow with 
the Petitioner atl J University, states that she is aware of the Petitioner's "vital" 
studies of the use of thel ~ intervention app with two middle school students, and that 
"[b]oth students showed marked improvement in their classroom behavior .... " I I 
.__ __ __.,[ a special education teacher in the.__ _______ ___.School District, indicates that the 
Petitioner "played a key role in our collaborative evidence-based research project in which we applied 
I I interventions." She indicates that the four target students improved their behavior 
2 The Petitioner also broadly maintains that the Director's decision was contrary to the holding in the precedent decision 
of Matter of Sea, Inc .. 19 T&N Dec. 817 (Comm'r 1988). Matter of Sea held, in part, that an evaluation by a credentials 
evaluation organization of a person's foreign education that is not in accord with previous equivalencies, or is in any way 
questionable, may be discounted or given less weight. However, other than citing that precedent decision, the Petitioner 
has not explained how that case supports the instant appeal, i.e., how the facts of that precedent decision are analogous or 
similar to the instant case. 
3 
"from an average baseline of 32% to an average maintenance of 86%." While these authors indicated 
that the Petitioner's research with thel I app benefitted several middle school students in the 
I I public school system, the letters do not establish the impact to the overall field beyond the 
Petitioner's research subjects. 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), she provided additional 
letters from colleagues and other educators and experts regarding her original contributions in her 
field.I I a second rade teacher i~ I states that she and her student were part of 
the pilot pro ram for the app, and that she continues to use it to enable students in her 
classroom to.___.---___ ___.,behavior. She calls it "a marked improvement for my students who 
are usinfi the app.".__ ___ __,., Superintendent of J !school District inD I )owa, states that the Petitioner is "uniquely positioned as a researcher to contribute to the field 
of Special Education," through her research onl J and regulation.I I 
curriculum director ofl I in\ I Iowa, and a former elementary school teacher, 
states that the Petitioner's research "uses ] interventions across grade levels, subjects 
and disabilities to achieve the desired behaviors in students." 
The Petitioner's additional expert letters included a letter from a social 
psychologist and Senior Director o_.__ _______________ ____,Research Center. He 
relates his knowledge that the Petitioner conducted a middle-school study using.__ _____ ____. I I interventions to reduce students' behavior problems and enhance their academic 
performance, and authored six publications concerning that research. He asserts that the Petitioner 
"has made and will continue t ' ibutions of major significance to 
both research and practice .... " '----,-------.-------=------' an assistant research professor in 
special education at the University o~--~, states that the Petitioner "has demonstrated the ability 
to make significant and innovative contributions to the field of special education, in her work applying I I interventions to school-wide behavior practices and assessments." 
I I a doctoral candidate in special education at I I University in I I 
states that the Petitioner coupled the I I app with the I lintervention "in order to 
remediate students struggling with not only reading, but also with behavioral problems." She states 
"[t]his intervention has direct use in the field as it can be implemented on students across subject areas 
and grade levels and on students with different and varying levels of abilities." 
Overall, the letters, as well as other evidence in the record, show that the Petitioner's original work 
has added value to the pool of knowledge, and opened avenues for further research into behavioral 
assessment tools involving I I behavior. The evidence, however, is insufficient to 
confirm that the level of attention she has received reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of 
her work, or that the field of special education has regarded her research as authoritative. The 
Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or 
high impact her research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 3 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att '.r Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Regarding her citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 221 
cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that her four highest cited articles received 60 
( Genes and Immunity), 45 (Journal of Leukocyte Biology), 36 (Journal of Biological Chemistry), and 
23 (The Journal of Immunology) citations, respectively. 5 Within its RFE response, the Petitioner 
submitted updated information from Google Scholar reflecting 267 cumulative citations. Moreover, 
the articles indicated above contained the following revised citation figures: 67 ( Genes and Immunity), 
51 (Journal of Leukocyte Biology), 36 (Journal of Biological Chemistry), and 29 (The Journal of 
Immunology). On appeal, the Petitioner presents farther citation numbers from Google Scholar 
showing 292 cumulative citations, including 71 (Genes and Immunity), 51 (Journal of Leukocyte 
Biology), 37 (Journal of Biological Chemistry), and 29 (The Journal of Immunology). The Petitioner 
did not establish how many of the citations occurred in papers published after the filing of her original 
petition. 
Notwithstanding the above, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that her citations for any of her published articles 
are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of the citations to her articles. Although her citations are indicative that her 
research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her citation 
numbers to her individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 
In addition, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted articles and excerpts of articles that cited 
to her work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 7 For instance, the Petitioner 
provided a partial article entitled, ~----------------~ (Immunological 
Reviews), in which the author cited to her highest cited article ( Genes and Immunity). 8 However, the 
article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the over 205 other cited 
papers. In the instant case, the Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through citations 
rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 The Petitioner's remaining 16 articles received between 1 and 14 citations, with 5 articles garnering no citations. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field. may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 Id. at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
8 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
Likewise, the record contains evidence of her attendance and participation at conferences but did not 
demonstrate how they resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d at 1115. In this case, the Petitioner has not established that a presentation at a conference 
alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion because she has received funding from 
governmental agencies to conduct her research. While the Petitioner's research is no doubt of value, 
it can be argued that any research must be shown to be original and present some benefit if it is to 
receive funding and attention from the education community. Every research adds information to the 
pool of knowledge in some way for it to be accepted for publication, presentation, or funding. It does 
not follow that every researcher who performs original research that adds to the general pool of 
knowledge has inherently made a contribution of "major significance" to the field as a whole. To 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has met this criterion, she must offer evidence that after the completion 
of the study, or the publication or presentation of the findings, the reaction to her work confirms that 
it has remarkably impacted or influenced the field as a whole. Here, the Petitioner has not submitted 
such evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
Petitioner has not established that her professional accomplishments have placed her among the upper 
level of her field. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4925539 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 6, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher in electrical engineering, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, in which he has to meet at least three, the Petitioner 
did not show his sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a research scientist wit~ lin 
~---~!New Jersey. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed 
papers for journals. In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and 
scholarly articles criteria. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner fulfilled the original contributions criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the original 
contributions of major significance and explaining his determination. To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner claims he meets this 
criterion based on his scholarly articles, conference presentations, research projects, patent 
applications, and reference letters from colleagues and other scientists and researchers. Because the 
record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated that he meets this criterion, we will withdraw 
the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
Within the Petitioner's initial submission, he provided letters from colleagues and other scientists and 
researchers. Although the authors discuss the Petitioner's research findings, their letters do not 
demonstrate that his work resulted in a contribution of major significance in the field. I I I I a professor in electrical and computer engineering at the I I Institute of Technology, 
indicates he met the Petitioner at multiple international conferences and workshops in the field. He 
describes the Petitioner as an extraordinary scientist based upon his work in the area ofl I 
.__~-----------' systems, specifically, his having designed a solution to greatly reduce the 
number of power system blackouts with ,, 
'r-------.------' a professor atOUniversity and the Petitioner's colleague at the University of ----~=~~ states that the Petitioner has made a "significant contribution tol I 
and its application in energy systems." He credits the Petitioner with "designing '---..--------'-~ a controller for highly complex systems and consensus networks" and pioneering '--------,------'-------, 
"the research on.__ _____ ____, control of inter-area oscillations in power systems" to enhance the 
stability of the power grid. 
The Petitione~vided an advisory opinion letter froml I a professor at the 
University ofL___J who praises the Petitioner's research onl I 
design as an innovative approach that is useful in many modem applications, and describes the 
Petitioner as "a rising star in h r f for large-scale networks." 
However, '-----------,1-'-----..--~ and '------~ do not explain how, specifically, the 
Petitioner's solutions and.__ __ ___.have impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of "contributions of major significance." 
The record also contains a letter from the Petitioner's masters and doctoral 
advisor at the University of He asserts that the Petitioner's research provided "significant 
contributions" to the I I systems and I I systems fields, proposing the "ground breaking 
framework" of I l for systems with symmetries, consensus, and 
synchronization networks. He discusses possible applications of the Petitioner's research findings, 
and notes that the Petitioner brought his research results "into industrial applications" during his 
internship and employment withl I 
.__ ____ ~I of .... l --~I states that since January 2017 the Petitioner has been working on the 
company's "projects to develo evaluate and demonstrate innovative and transformative 
technologies to boost in the power system from 40% to 100%." He 
describes the Petitioner's work on severa pro·ects, such as the.__ ________ __. 
project. He indicates the Petitioner also worked o ovemment-fonded ro·ects with the I I, developing algorithms for the to 
improve the stability and resiliency of1 l and with the 
developing! I algorithms for energy .... st_o_ra_g_e-an_d_p_o_w_e_r_g_e_n_e_ra_t-io-n~. 
While the evidence shows that the Petitioner contributed tol l's activities, the Petitioner did not 
show the unusual influence or great impact of his research work in the overall field beyond his 
employer.I lalso indicates that the Petitioner's research work forl lhas resulted in 
six patent applications, and he asserts that the Petitioner will be "able to bring his innovative ideas into 
real world applications that would significantly benefit the scientific, industrial, and economic 
3 
development of the United States." In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or 
idea but does not necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field. D 
I I however, did not explain how the Petitioner's methods or patent applications have already 
significantly impacted or influenced the field. Without evidence that the invention or innovation has 
been widely used or adopted in the field, or have otherwise influenced the field in a significant way, 
the patent applications do not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion . 
.__ ______ ____, a professor at the University of.__ ________ ____, indicates that he met 
the Petitioner at multiple international conferences in the field. He asserts that the Petitioner was "the 
first researcher to propose a framework that is able to identify and 
design a~ I while preserving the original powerr"""s"--'--"s"""te=m=-------,__ __ ___J 
structure," and that the Petitioner "proposed a novel methodology to us .__ ______ ___, to study 
and control I I systems." He provides that the Petitioner's 
"innovative" approach "could be used as an effectj·ve means for prevention of power outages 
nationwide," and by control engineers to "better design I to guarantee more robust systems." 
He states that the Petitioner's control design framework has been shown to be effective "in detailed 
simulations" and predicts it "will greatly improve the performance of the power grid and reduce power 
outages." 
.__ ___ ~I an assistant professor atl !university, met the Petitioner at multi le international 
conferences in the field at which the Petitioner resented his research on of 
power systems. She describes the al orithm that the 
Petitioner developed as "an effective method for handling th .__ ______________ ___, 
resources in modem power systems," and predicts that the Petitioner's approach "will prove very 
beneficial to industrial automation." 
The letters of1 I andl ldid explain how the Petitioner's proposed methods are viewed in 
the field as having been of major significance. Instead, their letters speculated on his work's potential 
influence and on the possibility of it being majorly significant at some point in the future. 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence, he provided letters from 
additional colleagues and experts.I I an associate professor at 
University, states that the Petitioner's research work onl I pow~e-r-gr_i_d_'-'p_r_o_v-id_e_s_a~ 
new and innovative perspective." He states that the Petitioner "has produced an exceptional amount 
of original scholarship, disseminated his original work in some of the top journals and conferences in 
his field, and he is leading multiple cutting-edge research projects." 
I l a program director at the .__ ________________ ___,of the I I, indicates she is familiar with the Petitioner's work through his presentations 
at various international conferences and worksho s. She indicates that the Petitioner has developed 
L_ ____ --.-_J--U-L-"-'-'.L..U.JL.1.LLJ....,_......._.__ ____ -, _____ __J in power systems," and states that 
his "proposed .__ ____________ _. approach is an innovative, yet practical method for 
reducing the number of power outages." 
4 
an associate rofessor at niversity, claims that the Petitioner's research 
regarding,__ ____________ ~ can have many different applications, such as in social 
networks and power and communication systems . 
.__ ______ ___,r""-a_sc_i---,entist at the I I Labo~atory, {s currently working with the 
Petitioner's team at~-~ on a three-year project funded b He assen;s that the Petitioner 
and his team developed a "control scheme for real-time control and supervision of\ I I I hydropower plant and ener stora es" and "[t]he [U.S.] power grid will ultimately 
benefit from [the Petitioner's] ideas of~-...... -....----~systems." He provides that the Petitioner's 
technology will be implemented in a future~~project in I l Alaska, with the involvement of 
the Petitioner's team atl I 
While the letters may show promise in the Petitioner's research findings, they do not establish how 
his work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, 
potential impacts. Here, the significant nature of his work has yet to be determined or measured. 
In addition, although the Petitioner asserts that the publication of his research is evidence of its 
significance, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate that his written work has been considered of 
major significance in the field. Within his initial filing, the Petitioner provided evidence from Google 
Scholar reflecting 106 cumulative citations to his 10 published articles. Specifically, the record shows 
that his two highest cited articles received 41 (IEEE Transactions on Power Systems) and 29 
(American Control Co11ference) citations, respectively. 2 
This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original contributions and 
explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication 
that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has 
not sufficiently shown that his citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with 
contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance 
of the citations to his articles. Although his citations are indicative that his research has received some 
attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his citation numbers to his individual 
articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 3 
The Petitioner also submitted articles that cited to his work. A review of those articles, though, does 
not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited 
to his work.4 For instance the Petitioner rovided an article entitled, '1 I 
~------------------------~ (Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews), in which the authors cited to his highest cited article (IEEE Transactions on Power 
2 The Petitioner's remaining 8 a11icles received between 1 and 9 citations, with 1 article garnering no citations. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field. may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 Id. See also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
5 
Systems). 5 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from 
the 131 other cited papers. In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles 
through citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, several reference letters provide that the Petitioner has been invited to present his findings at 
conferences. The letters, however, do not explain how his presentation and conference activities have 
impacted or influenced the field as a whole. Participation in a conference demonstrates that his 
findings were shared with others, but being selected to present, without more, is not indicative of the 
major significance of his contributions. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under this 
criterion absent evidence that they were of "major significance." Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 
1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact the Petitioner's work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the finding of the Director for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
5 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
Petitioner has not established that his professional accomplishments have placed him among the upper 
level of his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5784760 
Appeal of a Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 7, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a postdoctoral associate in materials chemistry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet 
at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets three criteria and is eligible for the 
requested classification . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a materials chemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. He received his bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry a~ !University in China, 
and completed his Ph.D. in chemistry atl !University in 2018. At the time of filing, he was 
employed as a postdoctoral associate atl !University's School of Chemical and Biomolecular 
Engineering. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging the work of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer-reviewed 
manuscripts for several journals including Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, Journal of the 
Electrochemical Society, and Materials Today Chemistry. 
In addition, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published 
in journals including Journal o_f Materials Chemistry, Nano Research, Chemical Communications and 
The Journal of Physical Chemistry C. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
fulfilled the requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that he also satisfies the requirements of the criterion relating to original contributions of 
major significance in his field. We will analyze the evidence submitted under this criterion below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence o_f the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
2 
In order to meet this criterion, a pet1t10ner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claimed in his initial cover letter that he made five original contributions of major 
significance in the field, as evidenced by his published research, citation record, and letters from 
experts in the field. Specifically, he highlighted the following areas of research: (1) synthetic 
strategies for creating and their applications (four published 
articles); (2) environmental protection abilities of 
,___~ _________ ._.,dye removal ( five published articles); (3 j I hybrid materials 
and the( appli1ations in rechargeable batteries and dye removal (four published articles); (4) high 
voltage materials and the impact of~--:---:---:--------:-;::::=======:;---:-'.'"""---' on I I ion batteries ( four published articles); and ( 5) investigatina I of battery 
electrodes during I I activities using I I I I ( one published article). 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. 2 In general, the letters recount 
the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and point to the citation 
of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not show how his research 
and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the 
level required by this criterion. 
With respect to his research of synthetic strategies for creating L,------..---------.--------1 
the Petitioner provided three letters from experts in his_.-=fi..:.e:..:ld::..:.·--====.-----. ........... ~~~~....., ._ __ ..,D 
University, explains that the Petitioner developed anl ~assisted........_ ____ _.synthetic 
method to create ,__ ________ ~ and discovered that the performance of such synthesized I I was superior to commercially-available bulk materials of the samf comoo~ition with 
respect to certain practical applications, including the removal of water ollutants . ._ __ __.jstates that 
the Petitioner's discovery of growth mechanisms for,__ _________ provides "a blueprint 
for the further design and preparation of functional ~----~" and notes that he used the 
Petitioner's! I as part of his own published enzyme mimic study. 
Similarly,! I a professor atDuniversity states that the Petitioner's "research into the 
material synthesis, growth mechanisms and functional a lications of0 acted as a cornerstone" 
into his own investigation on.__ __ .----.------------' and "strongly informed [his] 
methods of optimizing my materials.' ,___~provides an example of another team of researchers that 
cited the Petitioner's work states thaf the Petitioner has made "significant headway" in the 
development ofl _ and indicates that his research "continually serves as a guide 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
of other researchers aiming to optimize the sensitivity and reliability of c::==::J through the use of 
precisely controlled I I" However, neithd lnorl__Jforther elaborated or 
discussed whether the Petitioner's findings have been implemented beyond informing the research of 
other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent of their application. Neither letter specified how 
his research towards the development of I lis deemed a majorly significant 
contribution to the field. 
A third letter from describes the Petitioner's syntheses and analysis of._l __ _. 
as a "landmark study for the field," noting that the Petitioner's research "laid the 
~g_ro_u_n_d_w_o_r_k_f_o_r_t_h~e development o±1 I with cutting-edge I k applications." D 
[ I states "in direct recognition of its ingenuity and significance" he used the Petitioner's work on 
l.__ -------~l as the basis for his own study on~----------~ detection. 
Finally, he indicates that the Petitioner "has enabled fellow researchers to understand the properties of 
these materials in unr,recedented depth" and "established guidelines for the advancement ofi I 
technology." Whilel !describes the Petitioner's research as "landmark" and "pivotal," he 
does not discuss in detail how the work has already remarkably impacted their shared field, elaborate 
on the "established guidelines," or provide examples of specific applications attributed to the 
Petitioner's work. 
With respect to the Petitioner's investigation of the environmental protection abilities ofl.__ __ __. L.....,----~---~~.1-l _h_e ..... p_r_o---,vided a letter from.__ _______ _.a professor at Universita 
degli Studi I 11 ~ explains that the Petitioner's research in this area is "deeply 
impactfol" and "groundbreaking in its approach" by demonstrating that varying parameters can 
provided "an unprecedented level of control over the I I 
m.__ _____________ ___. He farther states that he and several other teams of 
researchers have relied on the Beneficiary's published work in this area, noting that the Petitioner has 
been an essential contributor to projects that are "advancing the state of materials science" and noting 
his "immeasurable impact on the field." Whild l's letter praises the Petitioner's research, 
he has not sufficiently detailed in what ways the Petitioner has advanced the state of research in his 
field or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider field beyond the teams 
of researchers who have directly cited his articles. 
The Petitioner's investigation of._l ----.----~lm_a_te_r_ia_l_s _,and their applications is addressed in two 
of the submitted expert opinion letters. I I explains that the Petitioner developed a I I strategy for creating materials," and found that thesel .... --------"''-',;-1-m-a-te_r_i-al_s_, _w_h_e_n_a_p_p_l-ie-d-to-an_e_le_c_t_ro_d_e_,_e_nh_a_n_c_e-it-s~ 
overall electrochemical performance, and can also be used to remove dye pollution from water. He 
refers to the Petitioner as "a guiding light in his discipline" with contributions in materials research 
"that affect everything from medicine to energy storage to industrial chemistry" and opines that his 
"of enormous value to the world." A letter from I I also discusses the Petitioner's 
"originally developed synthetic method forl !materials." She explains that 
'I ~ materials possess one-of-a-kind electronic properties and mechanical 
strength" and states that the Petitioner's development of a reliable method for their preparation "has 
enabled others throu9hout our shared field to take advantage of these properties in previously 
unimaginable ways." L !indicates that she has relied on the Petitioner's method to carry out 
four of her own related studies, describes her own research, and concludes that the Petitioner is "a 
4 
foremost expert on a complex class of I I holding considerable commercial, industrial and 
environmental value." Although I I confirms that she and several other researchers have found 
the Petitioner's work useful and applicable to their own research projects, her statement does not 
establish that the Petitioner's findings have been widely implemented in the field, or explained how 
they have already been of significant "commercial, industrial and environmental value." Similarly, 
I Is statement is not sufficiently detailed to support his conclusion that the Petitioner's 
contributions to materials science are "of enormous value to the world." 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a letter from I I a staff scientist at 
Laboratory, who discusses the Petitioner's research in high voltage I lma....,.t-er-i-al_s_i_n ____ _ 
ion batteries and in observing the of battery electrodes during 
activities using I I He summarizes the Pet....,.it-i-on_e_r_' s-st_u_d-ie-s~ 
in these areas, noting that hisl !research in particular were essential to biomedical engineers 
who were seeking to improve the functionality o~ !defibrillators. However, 
he does not indicate that the Petitioner's research has been widely applied in the field or how it has 
already been adopted by biomedical engineers. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent 
with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' 
assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have 
been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or not establish that the Petitioner's 
work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of 
major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But this evidence 
not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of materials chemistry rises to the level of an 
original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that 
other researchers have referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. 
Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his 
articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, 
or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in 
the field, may be probative of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor."5 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence from Clarivate Analytics showing that some of the articles he 
published were ranked among the top 10% in citations when grouped by academic field (in this case, 
chemistry) and year of publication. He further submitted a paper published in the journal 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. 
5 Id. at 8. 
5 
Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of three that should be used to evaluate individual 
researchers in the natural and life sciences" for purposes of funding and promotion or hiring decisions. 
The authors state that "publications which are among the 10% most cited publications in their subject 
area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that "the top 10% based excellence indicator" 
should be given "the highest weight when comparing the scientific performance of single researchers." 
However, this evidence does not establish that metrics that may be suitable for comparing applicants 
for academic research positions and grants are indicators that a researcher has made contributions of 
major significance to his or her field. 6 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. 7 A more appropriate analysis, 
for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, 
highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in 
other corroborating evidence. Highly-cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance" as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, any of the nine articles he characterizes as highly 
cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of articles that cited to his work. A 
review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the 
overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner provided a partial 
~-------------------~,Analytica Chimica Acta), in which the authors 
cited to his 2012 Journal of Materials Chemistry article. 8 However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the over 53 other cited papers. Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown how any of his published articles have an impact that rises to the level of "major 
significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several review articles, and 
submits a screenshot of a page from the website of the University ofDLibraries titled "What's a 
6 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work do not 
demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major 
impact in his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. 
7 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, chemistry papers published in 2017 receiving only seven 
citations and in 2018 receiving only two citations are in the top 10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with 
such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among 
the top 10% of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
8 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
'Review Article?"' Counsel states that "the appearances of [the Petitioner's] studies in the review 
literature demonstrate his status as an authority in the field, showing that he has not simply performed 
research that adds to the pool of knowledge, but has inspired meaningful discourse throughout the 
field." The evidence indicates that review articles are "an attempt to ... sum up the current state of 
the research on a particular topic" and may identify "the main people working in a field" and "recent 
major advances and discoveries." One of the submitted review articles, titled '--------~ 
.__ ___________________________ __.(Chem.Soc. Rev.), cites 
to the Petitioner's 2012 Journal o Materials Chemistr: article amon at least 292 other articles. 
Another review article titled ' 
'----------------' ' (Materials Chemistry A), cites to the Petitioner's 2011 Chemical 
Communications Article among at least 620 other articles. While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears to be a very active field of research, we 
cannot determine that every publication cited in a review article is indicative of an individual 
contribution of major significance, and the evidence does not distinguish the Petitioner's publications 
from the many others cited. 
The Petitioner refers to our non-precedent decision concerning an atomics physics researcher who 
petitioned under this classification. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does 
not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions 
apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and 
policy. Nevertheless, we note that the Petitioner emphasizes that, in the referenced decision, we 
determined that "over 350 citations, in conjunction with reference letters, are good evidence of a 
petitioner's contributions of major significance." However, the non-precedent decision also highlights 
the fact that we placed significant weight on the statements of experts who clearly described how the 
petitioner's scientific contributions were both original and of major significance in their filed. The 
expert opinion letters submitted in this matter did not contain sufficient probative analysis regarding 
the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow materials chemists and other experts, 
establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a 
contribution of major significance in the field of materials chemistry. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
7 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4689485 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 7, 2020 
PETITION: Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an international relations scholar and consultant, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center approved the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker. 
Subsequently, however, the Director of the Texas Service Center issued a notice of intent to revoke 
and later revoked the approval of the immigrant petition, finding that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) had approved the petition in error. 1 Specifically, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least 
three. 
The Petitioner appealed the matter to us, and we dismissed the appeal. 2 The matter is now before us 
on a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider. With the motions, the Petitioner submits additional 
documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least three of the ten criteria and qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon review, we will grant the motion to reopen and sustain the appeal. 3 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
1 The Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the 
approval of any petition .... " Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. By regulation this revocation authority is delegated 
to any USCIS officer who is authorized to approve an immigrant visa petition. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(a). 
2 See Matter ofD-A-, ID# 1518916 (AAO Jan. 25, 2019). 
3 As we are granting the Petitioner 's motion to reopen, the motion to reconsider is moot. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
Furthermore, section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We previously determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of only two 
criteria: scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii).4 
With respect to the contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), our appellate decision 
concluded that the Petitioner's letters of support did not provide sufficiently detailed information to 
demonstrate the nature of specific contributions he made to the field that have been considered to be 
of major significance. With his motion to reopen, the Petitioner resents new letters and other 
supporting evidence offering more detailed information a hi actions and their majorly 
significant implications towards furthering stabilit in th For example, the record shows 
that his specific work was central to diffusing,__ __ ----====-tensions afterc::=]seized al I vessel 
I I attempting to breach the blockade ofc=] and in the aftermath of a cross-border 
shooting along the I I border. This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in his field. Accordingly, as the record 
now demonstrates that he has satisfied at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, we grant the motion 
to reopen and consider the record as a whole in the context of a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
accomplishments are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. We evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has shown his eligibility 
for this classification. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has performed in leading roles as.__ _______ ____. and 
I I at thel IEmbass in Washin ton D.C. In addition, he served in other senior 
_ I positions including'-----------.----,-----' at the I !Embassy inl I Japan and 
._H_e-ad_o_f_t_.hel !division at the,__ _ _.Ministry of Foreign Affairs. More recently, the 
Petitioner has worked as a Scholar-in-Residence at I I University, a Visiting Fellow at the I I and Senior Fellow at the I I These senior 
I I roles and scholarly appointments help set the Petitioner apart through a "career of 
4 For instance, the Petitioner authored re orts for the and performed in a leading role asl I landl lat the.__ ___ ____,in Washington, D.C. .__ ___ _. 
3 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
While at the the Petitioner has authored multiple articles and re orts relatin to 
'---~-....,...... policy towards.__-.--------.----~;I I amon"""g ________ _ 
and.___~ reestablishment of,__ ___ ___, relations; and development o-~-------~ 
energy reserves. In addition, the record includes evidence that the Petitioner has been quoted as an 
expert inl I policy and I I relations by major media such as CNN and the New 
York Times. Also, he has appeared on CNN and Al Jazeera networks, and contributed articles and 
editorials to the Washington Post and the New York Times. We find that the Petitioner's publication 
record and involvement with major news outlets is consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim in his field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has presented letters of support offering detailed information regarding his 
I I achievements and contributions to fortherin[ stabiyty in thel I For example, 
~----------~---------1 in the Prime Minister's Office, stated that 
the Petitioner's contribu~ of major significance included "helping the strengthen its 
sanctions regime a~ains(_J" "navigating the diplomatic crisis betwee following 
the I l incident," and "containing tensions between,__ ___ ~--~ a ter a cross-
border shooting." The record contains additional letters from former ambassadors 
former ambassador to both thel I a former U.S. Senator, and former==========-p_o_li_c_,y 
advisers. While not all of them include the level of detail presented on motion, these letters from high­
level government officials and diplomats attest to the major significance of the Petitioner's work, his 
acclaimed accomplishments in the field, and standing as a top I I expert. 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as an international relations 
scholar and consultant. The totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise 
that is consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor and that he has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
With his motion to reopen, the Petitioner has submitted evidence establishing that he meets at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The record also demonstrates 
sustained national and international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through 
extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he intends to continue working in his 
area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore 
qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is granted and the appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4992052 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 7, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a water polo coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an athletic instructor at the I !Water Polo Club in I I 
Kazakhstan. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact for the appeal. Instead, the Petitioner submits additional documentation 
indicating eligibility under three criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence, we conclude that the 
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The record reflects that the Petitioner reviously provided identification cards showing that she 
received a "rank" of Republic of Kazakhstan" in 2009 and a "rank" of j I 
~-------------~ Republic of Kazakhstan" in 2010.4 On appeal, the Petitioner 
1 See the Petitioner's Form T-485, Application to Register Permanent Resident or Adjust Status, filed concurrently with her 
petition. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services AFM provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and 
has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider 
2 
indicates that as evidence of a nationally recognized award, she submits an "[ o ]rder of the Minister of 
Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan of October 28, 2014 detailing the standards and 
requirements for assignments of sports titles, categories and qualification[] categories" and 
"[b ]ackground information on Republican Center for Legal Information of the Ministry of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan publishing the fovernment orders." Specifically, in order to receive the title, 
j of the Republic of Kazakhstan," a participant on a team must 
place between first and eighth place at the Olympic Games, between first and sixth place at the World 
Championships, between first and third in the World Cup, first at the Asian Adult Games, or between 
first and third at the World Junior Championships. In addition, in order to receive the title, 'I I I lof the Republic of Kazakhstan," a participant on a team must place between first and fourth 
at the Russian Championships, between first and fourth at the Open Cup of Russia, first in the Asian 
Championships among juniors, between first and fourth at the World Junior Championship, or first at 
the Championship of Kazakhstan. 
Although the Petitioner presents evidence regarding the assignment of sports titles and rankings, she 
did not demonstrate that the water polo field recognizes such titles and rankings as prizes or awards 
for excellence. Moreover, while the documentation reflects designation of rankings by the Minister 
of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Petitioner did not show that such government­
based titles are necessarily recognized by the field for excellence. In addition, as indicated above, a 
participant may obtain such ranking without receiving a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence, such as eighth place at the Olympic Games. 5 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish which prizes or awards she received to achieve a j I ~---~I ranking. Specifically, the record contains photographs of medals without showing the 
names, finishes, and/or events. Although the Petitioner previously claimed that she received a 
"Medal" at the World Championship, Asian Swimming Championship, Asian Championship, Asian 
Water Polo Championship, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented her receipt of the medals, 
where she placed, and the national or international significance of the medals. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, she did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the awards criterion. Although she submits evidence for 
two additional criteria on appeal, relating to memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and high salary 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM ch. 22.22(i)(l)(C) (emphasis in original). 
5 The Olympic Games only distribute gold, silver, and bronze medals for finishing first, second, and third, respectively. 
See https://www.olympic.org/olympic-results and incorporated into the record of proceedings. 
3 
these issues. 6 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has competed and coached in the water polo area, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
4 MATTER OF S-T-V-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a post-doctoral research associate at He received his Ph.D. in 
2015 from in Massachusetts and his M.D. from 
in 2001. As he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Acting Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but not for 
original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the criterion for original contributions of major significance. 
Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec(ficaNon for which class(fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion, noting that the Petitioner has conducted 
reviews for The American Journal of Medicine and the International Journal of STD & AIDS, which 
demonstrates that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
2 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
Evidence of the alien's original scientffic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Acting Director addressed the different facets of the Petitioner's research and held that the 
evidence in the record does not establish the major significance of his contributions. She noted that 
he is listed as the first author in 20 percent of his publications and concluded that a comparison of 
his citation history to those of other active expert researchers in the field does not establish that his 
publications are of major significance in the field. On appeal, after asserting that six of his 
publications are ranked in the top ten percent of publications in the field of clinical medicine, the 
Petitioner states that this criterion does not require a comparison to the citation levels of other 
leading experts in the field. 1 While we note that citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the 
Petitioner's work in the field, they do not, by themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the 
nature of that discussion or the impact of his work on the field to meet this criterion. That context 
must be provided by other evidence in the record. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "performed critical research on dietary perceptions and 
levels of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, a Hepatitis A outbreak in India, the prevalence and 
economic burden of rotavirus diarrhea, and trends in HIV prevalence, HIV risk factors, and 
nutritional status." He also states that he has conducted a post-marketing trial on the drug 
and two clinical trials to develop a rotavirus drug vaccine. Here, we will assess whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that these aspects of his research represent original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's research on vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, the record reflects that he 
has published articles on numerous topics associated with nutrition, but he has not shown how his 
research on these topics constitutes original contributions of major significance. In a letter from 
associate professor at she states that the Petitioner worked with 
other researchers at the university "to better understand the perceptions and motivations of dietary 
practices of the American population.'' She asserts, "While public health officials have known of 
1 The Petitioner submits an InCites citation rate chart, an updated Google Scholar report, and a Microsoft Research report 
regarding his citation history. We note that it is unclear upon what data the Microsoft Research report is based. 
3 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
vitamin D deficiency, [the Petitioner] is one of the few researchers in this area to present a realistic 
view of deficient omega-3 levels." She notes, "Although he has not yet shared the results of the 
following project, [his] work indicates that revisions are needed for omega-3 dosage 
recommendations and assists public officials in understanding the subpopulations most at risk of 
nutrient deficiencies." While we agree that this appears to be an original contribution, 
admission that this recommendation on omega-3 fatty acids has not yet been shared as of September 
2016 does not support a finding that this has had a major impact on the field as of the time of filing. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
a senior research scientist, references the Petitioner's investigation 
into a Hepatitis A outbreak in India. He states that the Petitioner "recognized a young child's 
jaundice and fever as symptoms of hepatitis A" while working at a research pediatric clinic in India. 
notes, "He went house to house to identify children under the age of IO with similar 
symptoms" and that after six months and having surveyed 965 children, he identified 26 children 
with jaundice. states that the Petitioner then tested drinking water "tracking the source 
of infection." He asserts that one of the greatest impacts of this "was his use of GIS [geographic 
information systems] mapping and analysis," noting that other researchers cited his use of spatial 
methods "for studying infectious disease outbreaks." We acknowledge the positive influence the 
Petitioner had in this community in discovering the Hepatitis A outbreak, but the record does not 
demonstrate that this amounts to contributions of major significance in the field as a whole. The 
Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his use of GIS mapping and analysis significantly 
influenced the field at large. 
The record contains an article on the Petitioner's rotavirus study that was published in the journal 
Vaccine entitled, ' ' Although the 
number of citations to this article shows that his research has received notable attention from the 
field, the supporting evidence in the record does not demonstrate that this research equates to 
original contributions of major significance in the field. In a letter from assistant 
professor at he states that he utilized the Petitioner's findings "in 
microsimulation models of the cost of treatment of rotavirus diarrhea." He indicates, "We found 
with the help of [the Petitioner's] work that rotavirus brings a markedly high economic burden, and 
we also uncovered that implementing a vaccine program to treat rotavirus both prevents deaths and 
reduces the financial burden of the disease." He adds, "The implementation of [the Petitioner's] 
work in my own was central to my project's success, and it proves that [his] work is greatly 
advancing the science of this area." further states that "authors from the 
in India adopted data from [the Petitioner's] paper ... to inform 
policymakers of the necessity to implement a rotavirus vaccine." While playing a role in informing 
policymakers is a step towards reducing the effects of the rotavirus diarrhea, the record does not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner's contributions to these other authors have been implemented by the 
government of India to establish that this is a contribution of major significance . 
1 a professor and scientist associated with 
indicates in his letter, "Although vaccines exist to protect children against rotavirus, it 
4 
.
Matter of S-T-V-
remains a far too common burden in countries such as India.'' states, "The 
disease burden of rotavirus was obvious, but [ the Petitioner] noticed that it was of extreme 
importance to understand the economic burden of the disease, especially in areas with limited 
resources." He then notes, "[The Petitioner's] study was the first of its kind to show the economic 
burden of rotavirus diarrhea in children, overall emphasizing the need for vaccines in India" which 
"prompted further studies using the same methodology" throughout India. The record does not 
demonstrate whether this research was implemented in the field. Although it is notable that his 
research led to other studies on this issue, the record does not demonstrate what impact the 
Petitioner's contributions had on the field overall. 
With respect to the Petitioner's research on HIV prevalence and risk factors, 
associate professor at states that "[the Petitioner] has revealed in his studies that 
American people, especially women, currently living with HIV have considerably poor nutritional 
health." He indicates that the Petitioner "has provided the field with useful insights into the 
nutritional status of people living with HIV, which is necessary as a basis for developing 
interventions to increase the health of these individuals." We note that the record does not 
demonstrate what impact these recommendations have had. "Contributions of major significance" 
means that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia. 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
134. 
The Petitioner further states that his role in conducting three clinical trials for the purpose of 
developing drugs or vaccines represents original contributions of major significance. He asserts that 
he conducted a post-marketing trial on the HIV therapy drug and two clinical trials to 
develop a rotavirus drug vaccine. He cites a document from the which 
states, "Clinical trials are research studies that explore whether a medical strategy, treatment, or 
device is safe and effective for humans," noting further that they "produce the best data available for 
health care decision making." The record contains a document from the clinicaltrials.gov website, 
listing a study on entitled, 
· in which the Petitioner is listed as the principal investigator. Although 
we note the Petitioner is listed as the principal investigator, he has not demonstrated how his role in 
this study impacted the field at large. The record contains an email from the senior 
drug safety specialist for a biopharmaceutical company that the Petitioner 
states developed references the Petitioner's article entitled, ' 
' and requests that he provide information regarding the side effects that two patients 
experienced from this study. The record does not demonstrate that the results of this study have 
been widely implemented or how the information requested by ___ led to improvements in 
the drug that impacted the field in a significant way. 
Regarding the two clinical trials to develop a rotavirus vaccine, the record reflects that these studies 
were published in 2014. We note that one of these studies received a notable amount of citations 
while the other study received much fewer. In the appeal brief, the Petitioner states that based on his 
findings, "the government of India decided to initiate an anti-rotavirus immunization program and 
5 
Matter of S-T-V-
published a government report to that effect." The evidence in the record does not support this 
assertion. He has not demonstrated the impact of his work on the field to meet this criterion. 
In summary, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions pertaining to 
research on the rotavirus vaccine, nutrition, or HIV represents original contributions of major 
significance in the field to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship qf scholarly articles in the field, in prqfessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Acting Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in 
the following journals: The American Journal qf Clinical Nutrition, Journal qf Nutrition, Vaccine, 
and Clinical Infectious Diseases, among others. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-T-V-, ID# 1864483 (AAO Jan. 8, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6022650 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 8, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 Previously , the Director issued a notice acknowledging the withdrawal of the petition. The Petitioner filed a motion to 
reconsider , asserting that he had not withdrawn the petition. The record contains no evidence of such a withdrawal. The 
Director granted the motion and later issued a decision on the merits of the petition. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has documented a career in television and film dating back to the 1980s. He intends to 
work forl 1,1 I California, for $4000 per month plus 20% of profits above that 
amount accruing from his work for the company. 2 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four of the criteria: 
• Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
• Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
• Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
21 I describes itself as "providing entertainment performances for TV programs and TV broadcasting." The 
company's address provided in the record corresponds to a private residence. as does the different address shown in 
California state filings. We note that the contract between the Petitioner andl I expired on January 1, 2019, and 
that the California Franchise Tax Board suspended the corporate status ofl l for failure to meet tax 
requirements. This information may be material because the Petitioner must establish how he intends to continue working 
in his field in the United States. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S). 
2 
• Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the above-claimed evidentiary criteria. 
However, upon review we note that the Director did not consider much of the evidence in the record, 
and did not explain, in writing, the specific reasons for denial as required at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). 
In this instance, the Director discounted many of the Petitioner's submissions because "[s]ome of the 
material did not contain attribution in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g) and some were not 
accompanied by a certified English translation in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3)." 
The Director correctly indicates that any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS 
shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as 
complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translated documents in the record 
did, however, include certifications attesting to the accuracy of the translations and to the competence 
of the translator. The certifications deviated from the above requirement because the translator did 
not certify that the translations were complete, but the denial notice, as worded, implies that the 
certifications were entirely absent. Had the Petitioner been advised of a specific deficiency in the 
translations, that information would likely have shaped his appeal. (If the Director has reason to 
believe the translations are incomplete, and that they omit material information, then any new decision 
should specify these concerns.) 
With regard to the Director's citation to 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g), the word "attribution" does not appear in 
that section, or anywhere in the regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) relates to the 
submission of legible documents and lists the information required when providing "[ e ]vidence 
relating to qualifying experience or training." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(2) pertains to a U.S. employer's 
ability to pay a beneficiary's proffered wage. The latter regulation does not apply in this proceeding, 
because it applies only to petitions that require a job offer. 
A petitioner's evidence should include information such as the dates and locations of significant 
events, and printouts from websites should identify those sites in order to allow routine verification. 
But the repeated references in the Director's decision to a vague and nonexistent regulatory 
requirement for "attribution" appear to have compromised the Petitioner's opportunity to mount a 
meaningful appeal. Furthermore, while some translations of Internet printouts in the record do not 
identify the source websites, many of the Chinese-language printouts do contain that information. 
Further, the denial decision does not appear to reflect full consideration of the submitted evidence. 
For instance, that decision correctly indicated that user-edited websites such as Wikipedia and Baidu 
are not reliable primary sources of information; but the Petitioner did not rely entirely on user-edited 
websites to support his claims. 
Also, with respect to membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, the Director 
notes the requirement that members pay dues, and appears to hold that membership in any association 
requiring the payment of dues cannot satisfy the criterion. Certainly, any organization that only 
requires payment of dues cannot be said to require outstanding achievements of its members; but 
3 
requiring the payment of dues does not immediately discredit a given membership, to the point of 
preventing consideration of other documented membership requirements. 
As a final example, with respect to the Petitioner's claimed participation as a judge, the decision 
indicated that the Petitioner "was invited to judge," but that "the evidence does not show the 
beneficiary actually participated in the judging of the work of others for which he was invited." The 
Petitioner submitted a letter from the President of the I I Performing Art Institute, indicating 
that the Petitioner "actually participated in the ... Judging Committee work." The official provided 
some details about the nature of the committee's judging work. The decision mentions this letter but 
does not acknowledge its discussion of the Petitioner's judging work. Instead, the decision indicates 
that the letter shows "that the beneficiary was a recipient of awards and served as vice president," 
followed by assertions (previously discussed) concerning translation and attribution. 
The record includes evidence relating to some of the Petitioner's key claims, such as receipt of the 
20041 I Award, coverage in the People's Daily, and participating as a judge while serving as a 
vice president of a national organization, , and the decision, as worded, does not sufficiently explain 
why that evidence is deficient. In this way, the decision limited the Petitioner's ability to mount a 
meaningful appeal. 
At this time, we take no position as to the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. 
Rather, we remand the matter for the Director to review the record in light of the decision's 
deficiencies as outlined above, and enter a new decision. We note that in the event that a new decision 
proceeds to a final merits determination, the issue of sustained acclaim would warrant scrutiny. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081630 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 8, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a ____ ____ trainer and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met 
only one of the ten initial evidentiary criterion for this classification , of which she must meet at least 
three. The Petitioner subsequently filed a motion to reopen, followed by a combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. In both instances , the Director considered new evidence and affirmed the 
denial of the petition, determining that the Petitioner met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the submitted evidence satisfies up to five additional criteria and 
that she is eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former I I who competed on the Mexican junior national and 
national teams from 2002 until 2012. She retired from competitive! land began working as 
a coach and trainer in 2014. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these evidentiary 
criteria, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and participating as a judge 
1 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider the totality of the evidence as 
establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such that we can conclude that coaching is 
within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM chapter 22.22(i)(l)(C) (Emphasis in original) 
2 
of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to memberships, published materials, original athletic contributions of major 
significance, displays of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and leading or critical roles for 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
Upon review, we will withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence to 
establish that she has participated, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or an allied field of specialization for which classification is sought. 8 
1c.F.R. §I 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner submitted a letter from technical director of 
I I for the Mexican Federation of~---~ who states that the Petitioner "became a 
certified judge in 2015." The record contains no additional evidence of her judging credentials, and, 
more importantly, no evidence that she had actually participated, either individually or on a panel, as 
a.__ ______ ___. judge at any competition or event as of the date of filing in January 201 7. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
However, as discussed below, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner meets three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The Petitioner submitted sufficient 
evidence to establish that she was a five-time medalist at the 20101 I Championships; a 
four-time medalist at the 2010~ __________ ___. Games; a gold medalist at the 2011 
~-------___.Tournament; and a bronze medalist at the 20121 !Championships. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. We agree with the Director 
that simply being a member of a national team in her sport, or a registered member of the sport's 
international federation at the "elite" level, does not satisfy this criterion. However, we find sufficient 
evidence that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion based on her membership on the senior Mexican 
national teams that competed at the~~--~-----~Championships in 2009, 2010 and 
2011, the selection process for which has been explained in detail by the president of the national 
federation for the sport. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
3 
The Petitioner initially submitted copies of six print newspaper articles about her and her career as a I I which appeared in the Mexican publications El Tema, El Sol de Tampico, and La Afici6n 
between 2010 and 2014. However, these articles were accompanied by only brief: partial English 
translations. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a foll English language 
translation. 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b )(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is 
complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into 
English. Id. In addition to lacking a foll English translation, the evidence did not include information 
about the circulation or distribution of these newspapers and therefore did not demonstrate that any of 
them qualify as professional publications, major trade publications, or other major media. 
Two additional articles about the Petitioner, published by the Mexican websites elredactor.mx and 
movil.informador.mx, were translated into English, but the articles are not accompanied by the 
Spanish language originals or the required certification from the translator, nor do the articles identify 
the author of the material. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence that these websites qualify 
as major media, major trade publications, or professional oublirtions. Finally, the Petitioner 
submitted English-language articles published byl and the International Federation 
ofl I that mention the Petitioner's results in competitions. However, although she is 
referenced, the articles are not about the Petitioner and do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted additional articles about her that were published on the websites 
of Milenio (milenio.com) and Media Tiempo (mediotiempo.com), and these were accompanied by foll 
English translations. The Petitioner provided sufficient supporting evidence to establish that Milenio 
and Media Tiempo qualify as major media in Mexico and she meets this criterion based solely on these 
two articles. 
Therefore, based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has established that she fulfills at least three 
regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her 
eligibility. 
We first note that much of the evidence in the record pertains to the last few years of the Petitioner's 
career as a competitive I I Therefore, while the record reflects that she was a member of the 
Mexican junior and senior national I lteams from 2002 until 2012, the record does 
4 
not support a finding that she enjoyed national acclaim in Mexico prior to the 2010 season, as most of 
her documented media coverage and awards were achieved within the 2010 to 2012 timeframe.2 
D · this period, Mexico won the team all-around gold in.__ __ ~~ __ ____.at the 20100 
Championships and the Petitioner won four individual medals at this same event. The D 
Championships are described in the record as a "qualifier" for the I I Games, 
but there is no evidence that the Petitioner competed for Mexico in those games. In that same year, 
the Petitioner also won three individual medals and the team all-around gold at thel I I I Games, rd comf eted in the '------r-------.---' in Russia, where her highest 
placements were 42nd in event, and 18th in the team event. In 2011, the Petitioner, received 
four medals (two gold, two silver) at thel I International Tournament, and competed in the I I in France, where the Mexican team finished 17th and the Petitioner ranked 
between 55th and 83rd in her individual events. The Petitioner won two bronze medals in 2012, and 
reported no competition results for 2013 or 2014, the year she retired from competition. The record 
reflects that she received some media attention in Mexico as a result of her athletic achievements 
between 2010 and 2012, and again when she officially retired from competition. However, the record 
does not establish that she consistently received major media coverage commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. Although the Petitioner submitted more than 10 articles, as 
discussed, the evidence demonstrates that only two were published in major media. 
A December 27, 2010, article published by Mexican sports media outlet, Media Tiempo, shortly after 
the Petitioner's impressive showing at the I !Championships, stated that another Mexican I [ "has dominated the national sphere ofl I for some years" 
but noted that the Petitioner was emerging and may have an opportunity to compete as part of the two­
member Mexican team in the I I Games in 2011. The record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner was actually selected to compete at the 20111 I Games, or that she received any 
other national media coverage during her many years on the Mexican national team. 
The Petitioner's retirement from competition was marked by an article published by Milenio. The 
author notes that the Petitioner "gave part of her life to national L. I' and "triumphed in 
competitions like thel I Games." The article provides highlights from the Petitioner's 
retirement celebration in her hometown, notes her transition to coaching at the training facility that 
hosted her celebration, and refers to her as "the greatest! I' froml I. The record also 
includes an article published on the website of the Mexican National Commission of Physical Culture 
and Sport (gob.mx/conade) which indicates that the Petitioner was recognized by the commission and 
awarded a plaque at the opening ceremony of the 2014 Mexican National I I 
Championship, shortly after her retirement. While the evidence shows that the Petitioner likely 
enjoyed sustained acclaim in her home state, and a few years of national acclaim as a competitive 
gymnast with medals in international competition between 2010 to 2012, the evidence does not 
establish that she enjoyed sustained acclaim or that she was among the small percentage of gymnasts 
at the very top of the field, even during the height of her competitive career. 
2 Counsel stated that the Petitioner "has a staggering collection of prize places just in international competitions of the 
highest level," and "countless prize places at international competitions of lesser rank." However, we can only evaluate 
those specific prizes or awards that are sufficiently documented in the record. 
5 
In addition to submitting evidence of her awards and media coverage earned as an athlete, the 
Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence that discusses her role on the Mexican national team and her 
standing in the sport of in Mexico. For example, a letter from I I of 
the Mexican I I federation notes that the Petitioner "was considered the leading team 
member" and "was able to bring lots of acclaim to the field of .__ _______ _.in Mexico." D 
I lnotes that she was known throughout Mexico for being "hard-working, relentless, and 
dedicated to excellence." I L president of the Mexican! I federation, 
writes that the Petitioner "brought success to her state I I by drawing attention and earning 
prestige for I . 0, I' He credits the Petitioner with thl "tremendous growth of the snort 
in her state" and with building a distinguished reputation for the I I I, the center where she trained and later coached. 
However, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim or standing as one of the few at the top of her field by representing her home 
state and training center on the national team and enjoying success in national and international 
competitions. The record reflects that the Petitioner contributed to Mexican team podium finishes in 
several international events between 2010 and 2012 and was the topl lfrom her home state of 
I I for a period of time, but does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that she 
earned sustained national acclaim through leadership of the national team. Nor does the evidence 
support a finding that her successes are recognized as contributing to the growth or success of the sport 
ofl !throughout Mexico. 
The Petitioner also indicates that she made original contributions to the sportr--=o=-f .... l -------.----' 
by designing and hand-painting the I I apparatus for herself and for othd I. For 
example,! I a former member of the U.S.~------~team, praises the Petitioner's 
artistic skills, noting that she herself had the Petitioner design and hand paint thel I apparatus she 
used at the 20121 ~ She praises the Petitioner's "one of a kind" and "unique and 
detailed" designs. The Petitioner submitted letters from several other youngl l(and/or their 
arents and coaches raisin her ability to design and hand paintl land noting that "many 
sold on the market have boring basic designs." However, the record 
...,d,_o_e_s _n_o_t_e_s_ta...,.b...,.h,-. s-=-h--=h,....o_w_t-=-h-e--=P,.......etitioner' s hand-painted._ __ __,~re considered an original contribution 
of major significance in the sport as a whole, rather than perhaps impacting the artistic scores of a 
handful of athletes for whom the Petitioner designed! I Further, the record does not contain 
evidence that the Petitioner's artistic contributions to the sport of.__ ______ __, have been 
recognized at a level that contributed to her stature among those at the top of her field or resulted in 
sustained national or international acclaim. Rather, it appears that her contributions in this regard are 
limited to the design ofl lfor other L. I with whom she has competed or trained, and the 
recognition she has received is similarly limited. 
Turning to the Petitioner's more recent activities as a coach, we find that the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence to establish that the short-lived national acclaim she enjoyed based on her athletic 
achievements has carried over to her new coaching career. The record reflects that she formally began 
coaching atl I in 2014, and then relocated to the United States near the end of 2016. 3 The 
3 The Petitioner provided evidence that she accepted a coaching position with a California-based~-----~ 
6 
Petitioner submitted a letter from I I head coach and director,! I who states 
that the Petitioner has been the foll time coach of gymnasts! I andl I 
since 2014, and credits her with both I I membership on the Mexican national team. In her 
own statement dated December 28, 2015, the Petitioner named five I I that she had coached, 
but did not include I I among them. She identified I I as receiving a 5th 
place finish at national championships and indicated that she had coached two members of the 
Mexican junior national team: I I and I I Finally, the 
Petitioner submitted a letter onl [ letterhead, signed by~-----~,I l I I and I who state that the Petitioner "was part of the training team and 
a fundamental part that led us to obtain results m vanous national as well as international 
competitions." 
While the evidence indicates that I I has a distinguished reputation as al I training center 
withinl I state, the record does not clearly demonstrate the Petitioner's role in training or 
coaching specific athletes prior to coming to the United States, nor does it support her claim that she 
was recognized for holding a leading or critical role fo~ I In a letter dated November 2016,0 I I identified the Petitioner simply as part of her coaching team but in a subsequent letter 
dated January 2019, stated that she was "the second most important coach rt thel I" She also 
stated that the Petitioner's greatest success was "raisingl an~ ~' 
noting that "because of her effort and training talent they became members of the National Team." 
The Petitioner provided a letter from who states that she trained and competed with 
the Petitioner when they were both members of the.__ __ ~....., State Team beginniVR iu 201 Q auf1 
that the Petitioner became her "one and only coach that actually helped me with mYl r 
since 2014. I I states that she achieved a 9th place finish at the I I I ~hampionships in 2018 and that the Petitioner "deserves my prizes with me." The letter was 
B. ed by evidence that the Mexican! ~ team (which included I I 
nd j I) was awarded the team gold medal at the 2018 ~------~ 
Games inLJo 18, approximately 20 months after the Petitioner left Mexico. The record 
does not contain evidence of any other competitive results achieved by I I orD I l particularly those they achieved while the Petitioner was claimed to be their coach. 
Further, as noted above, the Petitioner herself dj~ not claim that she had coachedl I 
Letters were submitted from additional I ~ I who claim that the Petitioner coached or -. 
trained them, but they are not supported by corroborating evidence that she formally coached these 
athletes or gained national or international acclaim by otherwise guiding their careers. 
Overall, the evidence reflects that the Petitioner achieved sufficient success and acclaim as a 
competitive! Ito enable her to transition to coaching promising youn~ I at her former 
training center. However, she has not yet received a comparable level of recognition for her coaching 
activities, nor are these activities well-documented in the record. While it appears tha~~-~~as a 
center ~ b in 2017, while the petition was pending and subsequently submitted evidence of the 
achievements of U.S.-basedl lshe has coached. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied rrom the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 
103 .2(b )(1 ). If the Petitioner establishes that she achieved the requisite recognition as a coach in Mexico prior to filing the 
petition, then we would consider evidence that she sustained that recognition based on her coaching activities in the United 
States. 
7 
distinguished regional reputation within Mexico, we cannot conclude based on the evidence submitted 
that the Petitioner's role with this training center or her employment as a member of its coaching staff 
is indicative of her sustained national acclaim as a coach. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for 
individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Considered in its totality, the evidence in the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary was a very 
talented! I who is recognized within her home state of Tamaulipas and achieved a period of 
national acclaim during the height of her competitive career. While her athletic career included several 
notable accomplishments in international competition and she appears to be well-prepared to coach 
young I !striving towards the elite level, the Petitioner has not shown that her athletic and 
coaching achievements at this point of her career, in any one area or as a whole, are indicative of one 
who has risen to the very top of her field of endeavor with sustained national or international acclaim, 
as required. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 MATTER OF A-A-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral scholar and environmental sustainability fellow, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field 
through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as a visiting fellow and senior research scholar at 
in the field of life and 
environmental science.1 He states that his research is aimed at studying the "social aspects of 
science & technology in sustainable agriculture, renewable energy, climate change & health 
innovation in developing countries." Because he has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 The Petitioner has provided two CVs, indicating he was previously a research fellow at 
School of Government from 2014 until 2015, when he earned his master's degree in public policy, and a graduate 
student and research assistant at the from 2004 until 2007, when he earned his Ph.D. in 
biology. The record does not contain a copy of the Petitioner's degree certificates, but the CVs indicate, respectively , 
that his doctoral degree is in "Biological Sciences" and "Applied Toxicology ." 
2 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer 
reviewed manuscripts for several journals.2 Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below: the awards 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the membership in associations criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the original 
contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He 
further argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. We have reviewed all of the 
evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion, based upon his receipt of a doctoral student 
award by the a postdoctoral fellowship, and several other student 
awards and research grants during the course of his academic career. Initially, the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate reflecting that awarded him a student prize for the best poster 
presentation at its annual conference in 2008. His letter indicated that he presented his final doctoral 
research at the conference, attended by "many international students including from Europe and 
America." Within his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he offered a letter from 
president who explains that the prize is "judged by a panel of senior, eminent 
toxicologists from the for the "originality and quality of the work" and "clarity of the 
presentation." He states that "[a]ny student who is a member of the and presenting a poster at 
the annual congress" is eligible for consideration," that "draws its membership mainly from the 
UK," and that any prize awarded by would be "well regarded globally.'' 
2 For example, the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts for Food Policy and Biological Conservation. 
3 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
Although the Petitioner demonstrated his receipt of the aforementioned prize from he did not 
establish that it meets the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
award, which the record indicates is limited to students rather than open to established professionals, 
is nationally or internationally recognized as an award or prize for excellence in the field.3 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not establish that his postdoctoral fellowship with the 
grant, or other 
competitive research grants and student awards are tantamount to nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field, consistent with this regulatory criterion. On 
appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter from program manager for who 
confirms that between 2010 and 2012 he was a postdoctoral fellow, and describes the 
program as "highly competitive" and providing "promising, highly qualified young researchers" the 
opportunity to conduct advanced research at Japanese universities and other research institutions. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he received a 
and research funding from the The 
record does not contain corroborating documentation of these items of funding. Regardless, only 
other students -not recognized experts in the field -compete for such funding. The Petitioner has not 
shown that receiving the noted funding for his research and academic training constitutes receipt of a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal for the first time, the Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on his 
"membership as an advisory board member" with the 
in February 2013, and the 
since October 2017.4 
The Petitioner's CV indicates that he was one of ten experts invited by "to establish [the] 
biotechnology centre of excellence in Africa," also referred to in the record as the 
at the He provides a notice for the 2013 
inaugural meeting of the ___ International Scientific Advisory Board, and a 2014 job posting 
' See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/politymanual/HTML/PolicyManual .html. 
4 Although he also asserts that he is "a member of the most recognized and reputable organization in the world, the 
United Nations," we take notice of the fact that both the United Nations and confer membership on states, not 
persons. 
4 
.
.
Matter of A-A-A-
for executive director of However, the Petitioner has not documented his membership in 
or its International Scientific Advisory Board. Regardless, the job posting for the 
executive director lists certain educational and professional requirements, such as a doctoral 
degree, and five years of postdoctoral experience in biotechnology. Such requirements are not 
"outstanding achievements" in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's CV indicates that since October 2017 he has been an advisor with 
"The Expert Advisory Group-Support of advisory and Capacity-building Services to 
The record does not contain information pertaining to the 
membership requirements of the claimed advisory group, or evidence establishing his 
membership in the group at the time of filing the petition on May 10, 2017.5 Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field.for which class(fication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date. and author qf the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he is "continually and currently being relied upon" and "quoted as an 
expert" in published materials in the field. He submitted a 2013 publicity release in SciDev.Net 
titled " pertaining to his study of GMO 
regulation in Africa that would soon be published in Food Policy. The publicity release summarizes 
some of the findings of that study and includes quotes from the Petitioner.6 On appeal, he offers a 
letter from Ben Deighton, managing editor of SciDev.Net, stating that the website published his 
article I in 2011 and quoted him as an expert in two 
other news items published in 2013. Mr. Deighton describes SciDev.Net as "the world's leading 
online source of news about science, technology and innovation for development," reaching "100 
million people" annually. 
The aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner, therefore, they do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, the record does not 
contain probative evidence showing that the submitted article appeared in major media. Self­
promotional material is not sufficient to demonstrate a publication's status as major media. See 
5 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § l 03.2(b)( l ). 
6 The Petitioner also offered an article published in 2017 in Nature Climate Change, briefly describing his study of 
climate change adaptation in Africa in Ecological Economics. However, this article was published after the date the 
petition was filed on May I 0, 2017. As discussed previously, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudicatio n. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO (FMOX), 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. Jul. 6, 2007), 
ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680, 681 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that this office did not have to rely on a 
petitioner's unsubstantiated assertions). The Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) at Chapter 
22.2(i)(l)(A) discusses that to demonstrate a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media, a petitioner should "identify the [publication's] circulation (on­
line or in print) and intended audience of the publication, as well as the title, date and author of the 
material."7 The Petitioner did not submit material establishing the circulation statistics for the 
website SciDev.Net website, nor did he provide other circulation data to compare with those of this 
publication. Without additional corroboration, the Petitioner has not illustrated that the article was 
published in major media.8 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner contends that he "has completed original research and is a 
renowned expert within his field" who "has the support of other well-known and respected 
professionals who have commented on his work and abilities." Although he provided evidence 
reflecting the originality of his work through co-authored publications reporting his findings, he has 
not demonstrated that the overall field views his research and work as being majorly significant. 
The Petitioner argues that he "has more than 375 citations to his work," and that the top-cited article, 
published in Energy Policy in 2013, "has been cited 66 times alone." He also emphasizes that 
Energy Policy "is a high-impact journal," and that Food Policy, in which he was published in 2013, 
"is the top journal worldwide by simple impact factor in the field of agricultural economics."9 The 
comparative ranking of a paper's citation rate does not automatically establish it as a majorly 
significant contribution to the field. Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a 
petitioner has shown that his individual articles, factoring in citations and other corroborating 
evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
7 Available at https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/ocomm/ilink/0-0-0-6423.html#0-0-0-417, accessed on January 7, 2019. 
8 The Petitioner has not claimed, or provided evidence. showing that the article appeared in professional or major trade publications. 
9 The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting that he published approximately seventeen journal articles and three book 
chapters. In addition, he provided several materials published after the date the petition was tiled on May I 0, 2017, 
including articles published in the journals Nature Biotechnology, Ecological Economics, World Development, and the 
cover page of a book he co-edited, titled ' -~- --~- Further, he 
submitted evidence pertaining to a book he is co-editing which has not yet been published, tentatively titled 
As mentioned previously, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate his eligibility at the time of filing. Accordingly, we will not consider these additional items. 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Furthermore, a publication that 
bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does 
not, however, demonstrate the influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's 
research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Although his citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the number of citations to his individual papers demonstrate their 
"major significance." For instance, he has not submitted samples of other articles that cited to his 
work, to distinguish his written work from the other articles cited, or other evidence showing the 
significance of his research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 10 Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that his citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that he "has been a contributor and a relied upon member of various 
United Nations groups, projects, and initiatives." The record indicates that he contributed the 
findings of his postdoctoral research with the == to the 2015 and 2016 editions of the 
which invited scientists and 
researchers "to submit science briefs that highlight research findings or solutions relating to 
sustainable development." The evidence shows that the Petitioner's co-authored article, 
was of 1 of 187 science policy briefs 
published in the 2015 edition and 1 of 97 briefs published in the 2016 edition. Although those 
reports contain his published article, he did not establish that inclusion in the publications 
demonstrates that his research paper is considered to be of major significance to the field. The 
Petitioner did not provide evidence, for example, showing that the ___ article led to 
widespread coverage of and interest in his work and research. 
Further, while the Petitioner notes that the record contains recommendation letters praising him for 
his original contributions, the letters do not demonstrate their major significance to the field. The 
letters briefly recount his research and findings, indicate their publication in at least one high-impact 
journal, and note their presentation at international conferences and conventions. Although they 
detail the novelty of the Petitioner's research, the authors do not contend that its impact on the field 
rises to the level required by this criterion, or otherwise provide specific examples of contributions 
that are indicative of major significance. For instance, his research colleagues and co-authors 
, at and formerly at described his 
work examining the capacity and financing for climate change adaptation and mitigation in Africa, 
but they did not explain the significance of his research to the field or how it has greatly influenced 
other researchers or scientists . Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
.
Matter of A-A-A-
individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 
1115. Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). For the reasons discussed above, considered both 
individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner has published scholarly articles in the Journal of 
Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Journal of Environmental Management, Journal of 
Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, African Journal of Biotechnology, and in the journals Food 
Policy, Energy Policy, Technology in Society, Biodiversity and Conservation, and Environmental 
Science & Policy. We find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role .fcJr organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal for the first time, the Petitioner claims that he satisfies this criterion based on his "advisory 
roles" with in February 2013, and the since October 2017, as well as his participation 
in international conferences, multi-year research studies, and book projects. The scope of this 
evidentiary criterion focuses on the relative importance of the Petitioner's role for distinguished 
organizations. In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in 
which the petitioner contributed in a way that that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities.11 The Petitioner has not documented his role with 
International Scientific Advisory Board, or provided an organizational chart or other evidence 
to distinguish his role from that of other advisors, and demonstrate that he performed in a leading or 
critical role for 
Regarding the , the Petitioner's CV indicates that since October 2017 he has been an advisor with 
'The Expert A ..... ,.-.,,v,J Group-Support of advisory and Capacity-building Services to 
The Petitioner has not provided evidence of his role with 
, and his CV indicates he performed in this role after the date the petition was filed on 
May 10, 2017. As we stated previously, the Petitioner must demonstrate his eligibility at the time of 
filing, therefore , we will not consider this evidence in determining whether he satisfies this criterion. 
Finally, with regard to the additional roles that the Petitioner references , the plain language of the 
regulation requires that the leading or critical role be "for organizations or establishments. " The 
Petitioner did not identify organizations or establishments for which he played a critical role through 
his conferences , research studies, and book projects. Accordingly , the Petitioner did not establish 
that he satisfies this criterion. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at I 0. 
8 
Matter of A-A-A-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter qf A-A-A-, ID# 1883186 (AAO Jan. 9, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4998313 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 9, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a trek and mountaineering expedition leader, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner did satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Sherpa and mountain climbing guide who has participated in a number of climbs of 
some of the highest mountains in the world including Mount Everest. The Petitioner8· 
employment since 2004 with the companies an 
and with~--------------~ based in 
Washington. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets four criteria, discussed below. We 
have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and we conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner argues that he "met his burden to show that the ten regulatory criteria do not readily 
apply to his occupation and that the evidence he submitted is comparable to show his national and 
international recognition for his work in his field." Specifically, the Petitioner clams that he provided 
evidence "from multiple sources to explain the fundamental difficulties elite Sherpas encounter in 
being recognized nationally and internationally for their extraordinary and incredibly dangerous 
work." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. 1 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence 
that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the 
evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 
Although the Petitioner offered documentary evidence relating to the life, history, and overview of 
Sherpas, as well as the risks and dangers, the regulatory requirement for the submission of comparable 
evidence is whether the criteria "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his evidence establishes that the criteria 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
do not readily apply to Sherpas and mountain guides and why he cannot offer evidence that meets at 
least three of the criteria. The Petitioner's claim that Sherpas face difficulties in receiving national or 
international recognition for their work does not necessarily show that Sherpas cannot fulfill at least 
three criteria. In addition, the decision that a petitioner received national or international recognition 
is conducted in a final merits determination after at least three criteria are satisfied. See Kazarian 596 
F.3d at 1115. 
Further, as discussed below, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four criteria without the submission 
of comparable evidence, including memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading 
or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that Sherpas 
or mountain guides cannot present evidence relating to the other criteria, such as awards under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that fulfills at least three 
criteria is not evidence that he could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that 
he qualifies for these criteria through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Next, the Petitioner's counsel lists 11 individuals with corresponding receipt numbers and claims that 
"USCIS has approved extraordinary ability petitions for the following clients of our firm" and"[ e Jach 
of these individuals relied on the use of comparable evidence to establish their eligibility for an El 1 
immigrant visa." However, each petition is reviewed on its own merits. Further, we are not bound by 
decisions of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 
2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). Moreover, Counsel did not demonstrate that the issues in 
those cases were strikingly similar to the Petitioner's case, including the application of comparable 
evidence. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal for the first time, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion due to his membership in the I I and the,__ _____________ _.,. In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 3 
Regardingc=J the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I the president of that association, 
stating that the Petitioner has summited I I nine times and that he is registered ¥Jl-ll\ember of 
the association. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a copy of his membership card for theL_J showing 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
he is a General Member of the organization, and screenshots from the0 website that state 'c=J as 
the name itself speaks, is an association of~------~ The Board of Committee members thus 
includes all the veteran Nepali climbers." However, the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
establishing the membership requirements for the ~ showing the organization requires outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, such as the bylaws or 
constitution of thel I 
Regarding thel I, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I [ its chief administrative 
officer, stating that the Petitioner "is [a] Support Climber ... of this association." On appeal, the 
Petitioner includes screenshots from the organization's website, indicating it operates "as a national 
alpine association of Nepal to promote mountain tourism, climbing sports, protect mountain 
environments and preserve and promote cultural heritage of mountain people." The materials outline 
the following membership levels: 
• General Members: Everest or 2 times 8000m summiteer, mountaineers and any individual 
Nepalese citizen interested in mountaineering; 
• Associates Members: Trekking, travel and mountain tourism related agencies; 
• Institutional Members: Different tourism organizations; 
• Book Holder members (Professional Members): Sardar, senior support climbers, support 
climbers, cook and kitchen boys; 
• Life members: 
Nepalese- Rs.25,000/- as approved by Executive Committee. 
Foreigners -US $1,000.00 as approved by Executive Committee 
The Petitioner did not show that the membership requirements for the>:I I require outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. The record reflects that the 
I I focuses on a certain level of experience and the payment of dues, rather than outstanding 
accomplishments and achievements in the field. 4 Here, the Petitioner does not demonstrate that 
possessing the stated summiteering or mountaineering experience is indicative of outstanding 
achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. Further, the Petitioner has not establish that 
recognized national or international experts judge membership in thd I 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner's submissions contain a number of foreign language documents. While the record 
includes English translations, some of them do not contain a translator's certification, or are not "full" 
and "complete" translations, as required by the regulatory requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
Specifically, the translation of an article dated 2017 from the Nepali weekly newspaper Ghatana Ra 
Bichar specifies that it only translated an "extract" of the foreign language document. In addition, an 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
article from the Dutch travel magazine 360° appears to be in Dutch, however the translation of the 
article does not contain a certification of the translator indicating that the translation is complete and 
that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Another article from 
the Dutch magazine Hoogtelign appears to be in Dutch but is not accompanied by an English language 
translation. In light of these deficiencies, the foreign language documents and their translations are 
insufficient to establish the Petitioner's eligibility. 
Even if we were to consider these documents, we would not find that they satisfy this criterion. 
Specifically, the article from 360° is about the author's experience on a "mini-expedition" to the I I guided by the Petitioner and the Petitioner's brotherJ I The article 
from the Dutch magazine Hoogtelign is about Alaska's Sherpa exchange program in which the 
Petitioner participated. These articles are not "about" the Petitioner as required under the regulation. 
In addition, the extract of an article from Ghatana Ra Bichar does not indicate the author of the 
material, as the criterion specifically requires. 
The record contains several additional articles. One from The Himalayan Database, about a 2012 
large expedition tol I mentions that the Petitioner was one of 25 Sherpas who successfully 
summited the mountain, but is not "about" the Petitioner. An article from an unidentified source about 
a 2009 expedition tol I that included the Petitioner, and another concerning the Petitioner 
published in Nepal Saptahik, do not include, as required, the author of the material. Finally, an article 
regtjrdinglthe Petitioner from the website www.thepowemews.com discusses his climbing since 2004 
wit and I lhis completion of basic and advanced training at~between 2005 and 2006, 
his summits ofi I between 2005 and 2009, and his rescue work and rescue training between 
2014 and 2015. The Petitioner, however, has not established that this website constitutes a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not shown that he met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that he has submitted "33 expert letters" documenting his "original contributions 
of major significance" in the field of mountaineering. He claims those contributions include "saving 
the lives of other climbers," "improving mountaineering safety," "using his search and rescue skills 
to teach others how to climb safely," and "contributing to the revitalization of the mountaineering 
industry after the devastating earthquakes in 2014 and 2015." In order to satisfy the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (providing an example that although funded and published 
work may be "original." this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
The letters praise the Petitioner for his talents and experience. 6 For example, 
'--.,....-.,....-...,.....,...-----,----,--' mountain guide, indicated that the Petitioner's "exceptional skills and advanced technical kno1ledgel 
on the mountain make him one of the most able and talented guides available in the world." J I mountain guide, praises the Petitioner's "physical strength and mental fortitude." ~ 
~L _____ ~I, a climbing enthusiast, described the Petitioner as being exceptional based upon "his 
elite level of physical fitness, strength and stamina; his knowledge of alpine conditions and risk 
assessment skills; and his high level of skill and technical training gained from his extensive resume 
of high altitude experiences." Although the letters praise the Petitioner for his skills, they do not 
explain what specific contributions the Petitioner has made, or how they are "of major significance in 
the field." Having a diverse skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself Rather, 
the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those unique skills to 
impact the field at a significant level. 
The letters also describe specific events and accomplishments from the Petitioner's ex enence. For 
instance, I I a recreational climber, stated that while summiting the 
Petitioner " rabbed my shoulder to save me from a dangerous fall off the steep incline.".__ __ _. 
, a mountaineer and rock climber, states that the Petitioner helped him descend from 
._th-e-su_m_m_1 __ t_o_f-=-:~~~=when he ran out of oxygen. In addition, in his aforementioned letter,1 I 
confirmed that the Petitioner "has summited I 19 times." I I mountain guide, 
provides that the Petitioner "has completed the advanced mountaineering course through I I in 
Nepal and is now an instructor with this organization." The letters, however, do not establish that the 
Petitioner's personal accomplishments and experiences have risen to a level constituting original 
contributions of major significance to the overall field. 7 
Further, the Petitioner contends that his "[ s ]earch and rescue is a specialized mountaineering skill that 
is original because only a select, elite group of mountaineers are able to perform search and rescue" 
and refers to numerous recommendation letters. Almost all of his recommendation letters specified 
on appeal simply mention the Petitioner's engagement in rescue missions without showing how they 
constitute original contributions of major significance in the field. For instance, in his above­
referenced letter,1 l indicates that "[d]uring two difficult seasons onl I (2014 avalanches 
and 2015 earthquake in Nepal), [the Petitioner] workt tjre)ess)y rescuing western climbers who were 
stranded on the upper reaches ofl I." Similarly,~--~[ states that the Petitioner "participated 
in high altitude rescue missions and contributed to saving the lives of many W estem climbers and 
Sherpa guides in the aftermath of the devastating 2014 avalanche in the j I and the 2015 
earthquake and avalanche at I I Base Camp." Although the letters indicated the Petitioner's 
involvement in rescue missions, they do not contain specific, detailed information explaining how his 
contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, other letters discuss the Petitioner's skills in setting ropes and routes but do not show that 
his contributions had a major influence on the field as a whole. For example, the record contains a 
letter froml I a climber who has worked with the Petitioner since 2004, stating the following: 
6 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
6 
[The Petitioner] helped to spearhead the "rope fixing" to I ts summit in three 
consecutive years. It should be appreciated that only the most capable climbers could 
be part of this difficult, dangerous, and precise work, paving the way for guided groups 
and less-experienced climbers. The fixing teams are often soloing on steep and 
technical terrain ... while carrying heavy loads to extreme altitude. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he performed in a leading or critical role forD andD For a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 If a critical role, the evidence must 
establish that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 11 
The record contains letters froml lthe director of O andl l the 
chairman ofc=J The Petitioner also provided two letters from l ~, the co-owner and 
director of0 and submits an additional letter from him on appeal. The record indicates that D 
is associated with the Montana-base~ !Foundation, and is a vocational program 
that offers annual classes to teach basic mountaineering and climbing~· Nepalis and She~ 
According tol I the Petitioner has been a Lead Instructor with for several years. L_J I I provides that he and the Petitioner have worked together at since 2004, and that the 
Petitioner achievedD' s "best instructor" title in 2015. RegardingQ I I stated the 
company "has employed [the Petitioner] since 2004 as a Mountain Guide on many of our treks and 
expeditions in Nepal and Tibet." Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's employment, they do 
not indicate that the Petitioner ever held a leadership position within t~e comranies. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he performed in a leading role wit orD 
As it relates to a critical role, the letters do not show that the Petitioner contributed to the successes or 
standings ofc=] or D While I I indicates that the Petitioner "has greatly affected" 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
11 Id. 
7 
Os reputation as a company "with an impeccable safety record," an~ provides that the 
Petitioner has been involved in the development and implementation of~s curriculum, the 
letters do not establish that his role as a mountain guide rose to a level consistent with a critical role. 
The Petitioner did not demog~ple, that his mountain guide role resulted in increased 
revenue or participation with or L_J For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he 
performed in a critical role for r ~ 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081233 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 9, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive ballroom dancer and teacher, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States in November 2013 to participate in dance competitions. Since 
that time, he has remained in the United States in O-1B nonimmigrant status as an individual with 
extraordinary ability in the arts. The Petitioner remains active in competition, and at the time of filing 
was an instructor at al !Dance Studio franchise inl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to the display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets three other evidentiary criteria, 
discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied any farther criteria beyond the one that the Director granted. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted translated Tpies of lertificates showing that the Petitioner placed first or second 
in numerous dance competitions in Europe from 2001 to 2013. The Petitioner also received 
awards and certificates in the United States, both for dancing and for teaching, from 2013 to 2017. The 
Petitioner did not submit background information or documentary evidence to establish the national or 
international recognition for these prizes. The prizes themselves are not evidence of their own 
recognition. 
The Petitioner submitted information about the awarding entities: 
• r==J..l:2anceSport Federation I.,_, -.-----"""'~,_I__, 
• L__J Dance Sport Federation .... l __ ___, 
• National Dance Council of America • I ~ Dance Studios._! ___ ____. 
The submitted materials provide background information about the entities, but do not establish the 
national or international recognition accorded to individual awards from those entities. The regulatory 
2 
standard is that the prizes and awards must, themselves, be nationally or internationally recognized; it 
cannot suffice that the Petitioner received prizes and awards from recognized entities. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had won "numerous prizes and awards," but found that the 
Petitioner had not shown them to be nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a ten-page list of competitions in which he placed first or second, and 
asserts that the competitions are nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner, however, 
identifies no record evidence that establishes that claimed recognition. The Petitioner cited information 
about the awarding entities, but this information does not establish that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner has won a number of awards, but he has not established that those awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized as the regulations require. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims membership in the I I Dan, Federation I I and the I I Dance Sport Federation! I Printouts from the 's website identify the Petitioner 
as a member of thel I but not the I I and indicate that the~_~has 1297 members. The 
Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to show the membership requirements for thel I 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he "is a member of the I I Dance Sport Federation." He 
does not repeat his earlier claim of membership in the I The Petitioner also provides information 
about thel I the membership of which consists of national governing bodies rather than individual 
dancers. 
The Petitioner has not established that his is a member of any association in the field that requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. 
Beyond the above criteria, the Petitioner has, at various times, cited the same evidence to show that he 
has satisfied two criteria not mentioned in the Director's decision: 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claimed contributions in response to a request for evidence, and, on appeal, to have 
performed in a leading or critical role. Because the Petitioner does not pursue the "contributions" criterion 
3 
on appeal, we will consider the Petitioner's arguments and evidence in the context of a leading or critical 
role.1 
The Petitioner quotes five letters in the record. These letters are not sufficient evidence, for several 
reasons. Some letters do not name specific organizations or establishments, but rather offer only the 
general assessment that the Petitioner has had a productive and successful career. 
One reference letter indicates that the Petitioner has served as a teacher and competitive dancer with "the I !company." Whatever the national reputation ofl !Dance Studios may be, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has had any kind of role with the studios at a national level. Rather, he 
has worked and competed for individual franchisees that license thel I and the record 
does not establish that those specific franchisees have a distinguished reputation. 
Additional letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner served as a dancer, a trainer, and an adjudicator 
for th~~-~F The letters do not explain, and the Petitioner does not show, how these roles were leading 
or critical to the Federation, rather than lower-level participation in its activities. 
For the above reasons, the various quoted letters do not establish that the Petitioner has performed in 
a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The submitted evidence shows that the Petitioner has been a successful competitive dancer, winning a 
number of competitions over several years and, later, engaging in teaching while continuing to compete. 
The significance of his activities, however, is not self-evident from the materials in the record, and the 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive immigrant classification, the threshold for which is not simply success 
and longevity. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner abandoned the "contributions" issue by not raising the issue on appeal. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 
401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731, 2011 WL 4711885, at *l, *9 
(E.D.N.Y. 2011 ). 
2 A separate criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), concerns pa1iicipation as a judge of the work ofothers. The Petitioner 
does not specifically claim to have satisfied this criterion. While a number of letters in the record refer generally to the 
Petitioner's past work as an adjudicator, and a website printout refers to his adjudicator's license, the record does not 
directly document this activity or illustrate any identifiable occasion on which the Petitioner served in that capacity. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6082055 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 9, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an animation director/producer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he has received a major internationally-recognized award, or, in the 
alternative , that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision contains errors of fact and overlooks a 
significant amount of probative evidence that establishes his eligibility. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an animation director and producer, is the CEO and owner of I I. in 
South Korea and in the United States. His ma· or credits include television projects 
for Nickelodeon Cartoon Network I I 
and Netflix.__ ________________________ _, among others. 
A. Major International Award 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationall reco nized award. On a eal the Petitioner maintains 
that his 2006 Annie Award for .__--------..-----------.-----'is a qualiff ng award. 
He received the award as the animation director for the.__ ______ ~episode titled_ I I ~' l 
The Petitioner describes the Annie Award as "one of the world's most prestigious awards in the 
animation industry, often described as 'Academy Awards (Oscars) in animation' and/or 'Animation's 
Highest Honor,' noting that it is "internationally renowned and is truly a lifetime achievement." The 
record includes background information regarding the award, which is given by the Hollywood 
chapter of The International Animated Film Society (AFISA-Hollywood) at an annual awards 
ceremony. This information reflects that that from 1972 until 1992, the Annie A wards honored 
cumulative career achievement, after which increasing numbers of categories were added over time. 
The information from ASIF A-Hollywood describes the Annie Awards as "one of the most professional 
awards shows in Hollywood" noting that it has drawn presenters such as Stan Lee, William Shatner, 
and John Leguizamo, and was filmed for television airing on one occasion (in 1999). The record 
includes evidence that the 2018 awards nominees were announced in articles published by the websites 
Animation World Network (awn.com) and mxdwn.com, as well as a 2017 article titled "Disney Wins 
1 Although the Director determined that the Petitioner only provided evidence of his nomination for this award, his actual 
receipt of the award is well-documented in the record, which includes a photograph of the engraved award and official 
results from the awarding organization. 
2 
Big at 44th Annie Awards" published on the website of the Walt Disney Company. Finally, the 
Petitioner submitted several recommendation letters from individuals in his field who mention the 
significance of the Annie Awards. For example, I I a supervising director at I I states that the Annie is "equivalent of the Academy Awards in the field of 
animation," and! 
0 I a line producer a~ I states that the "Annie A wards 
are essentially the animation industry's version of the Oscars or Golden Globes." I I 
executive producer I I describes the award as "one of the most influential and 
internationally recognized awards for accomplishments in the industry." 
The aforementioned documentation, however, does not sufficiently demonstrate the international 
import of the Annie Awards or establish that its winners receive recognition commensurate with a 
major, internationally recognized award. Although the evidence draws comparisons between the 
Annie Awards and the Academy Awards, winners of the latter are reported in major media 
internationally and receive their awards in a televised ceremony watched by millions of viewers. By 
contrast, the evidence does not establish that the Annie A wards attract a substantial audience, receive 
significant international media coverage, or are otherwise internationally recognized at the level 
required to qualify the award as a major one-time achievement. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this visa category to "that small percentage of individuals who have 
risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one­
time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying 
as major, internationally recognized awards. Congress' example of a one-time achievement is a Nobel 
Prize. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The regulation is consistent with this legislative 
history, stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized award. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection ofNobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported 
in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, is a familiar name to the 
public at large, and includes a large cash prize. Although a major internationally recognized award could 
conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those elements, in the present 
matter, the evidence submitted does not establish that the Annie Award for character animation is such 
an award 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated a qualifying one-time achievement pursuant 
to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to original contributions of major significance in his field, and high salary or remuneration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards, published materials, and leading or critical roles for 
organizations with distinguished reputations. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that the Petitioner has not satisfied three criteria. 
3 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors. 2 Further, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner himself 
received the award. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. As noted, the Director 
incorrectly found that the Petitioner did not establish that he was the recipient of an Annie Award, 
despite ample evidence in the record documenting his receipt. We find, based on the evidence 
discussed above, along with evidence that the Petitioner received media coverage that mentions his 
award, that he meets this criterion based on his receipt of the Annie Award.__ _________ __, 
With respect to this criterion, we note that the Petitioner also submitted evidence related to his Emmy 
Award nomination, and noted that I I also received "ma·or awards" 
including: two Pulcinella Awards in 2005 I land 
a Genesis Award for.__ ___________________________ ____. for 
which he served as animation director, and a 2008 Peabody Award. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 While the 
Petitioner's Emmy Award nomination is a significant professional achievement, we cannot equate his 
nomination with receipt of an award. In addition, while the Petitioner mentioned various awards won 
by I I television series, he did not provide evidence that he was individually 
recognized by the awarding entities of the Pulcinella, Genesis, or Peabody Awards and therefore he 
did not meet his burden to establish that he was the recipient of these awards. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included published online articles that relate to his work as an 
animator, animation director and animation studio head. These articles appeared on the websites 
Cartoon Brew (cartoonbrew.com), The Korea Times (koreatimes.co.kr), Polygon (polygon.com), 
Kyunghyang News Daily (khan.co.kr), Hankyung Business (news.naver.com), Chosun Business 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 
(biz.chosun.com), Yonhap News (yonhapnews.co.kr), Digital Times (dt.co.kr), eDaily (edaily.co.kr), 
The Dong-A Ilbo (kids.donga.com), Cine 21 (cine21.com), The Daily Sports World 
(sportsworldi.segye.com), Chosun Daily Topclass (topclass.chosun.com), and Seoul Economics Daily 
(news.naver.com). 
With the exception of the articles published by Cartoon Brew, The Korea Times, and Polygon, all of 
the articles were in the Korean language. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied 
by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the 
English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate 
from the foreign language into English. Id. Here, while each Korean-language article was 
accompanied by an English translation, the individual translations did not include a certification of 
accuracy from the translator. Rather the Petitioner submitted a single, blanket certification, which did 
not accompany any specific document. The certification from the translator states "that the 
attached/above document is an accurate translation of the document attached entitled "Newspaper 
Articles: I I' Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English 
language translation of each document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated 
material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. Therefore, we cannot find that the 
evidence from the Korean-language publications meets this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner did not include supporting evidence demonstrating that any of these articles, 
including those originally published in English, appeared in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, 4 and instead relied on unsupported assertions regarding the nature or stature of 
these websites compared to other publications in South Korea. For example, counsel stated that "The 
Korea Times would be equivalent of the United States' New York Times." Assertions of counsel do not 
constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of 
Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in 
the record with independent evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional information regarding 
The Korea Times from the publication's website, but the provided information only discusses the early 
history of the newspaper and does not include the comparative circulation data necessary to establish that 
it qualifies as major media in South Korea. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles from publications such as Forbes and Vanity Fair which discuss 
the television series on which he worked. However, these articles do not mention the Petitioner and 
therefore are not about him. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a 
finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted an undated certificate from The Marquis Who's 
Who Publication Board indicating that he had been approved as a subject of biographical record in the 
2018-2019 edition of Who 's Who in the World. The Petitioner did not provide evidence that this 
edition had gone to print as of the date of filing. Therefore, even if we determined that a biographical 
entry in this publication meets the plain language of the criterion, the submitted documentation does 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
not establish that it was published prior to the date of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and 
continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion. We disagree and will withdraw that 
determination. 
The Petitioner, referencing his filmography, indicates that he has "contributed numerous original 
artistic and commercially successful animation products of major significance." In addition to his 
filmography and other evidence related to his television projects, the Petitioner has provided letters 
from colleagues who highly praise his abilities as an animator, animation director, producer, and studio 
head. 6 However, the submitted letters do not contain sufficient information to establish how he has 
made an original contribution that has remarkably influenced or impacted the field . 
.__ _____ ....,I a principal artist atl I describes the Petitioner as "an influential figure 
particularly in the South Korean animation industry." He notes while there are many internationally 
reputable animation studios that produce work for American and Japanese animation companies, the 
Petitioner, through his studio, has sought to be a "creator of world class animation works" instead of 
acting as a subcontractor to a major company." I I opines that the Petitioner "deserves the title 
as a trailblazer in South Korean animation industry because his studio has contributed to the growth 
of independent creation by getting involved from the planning stage through post-production." While 
I Is letter indicates that the Petitioner has adopted a business model that may be unusual in the 
South Korean animation industry, the evidence does not establish that the concept of operating a full­
service animation studio is an original business concept in the field as a whole, and the actual impact 
of his business model on the wider field, or even within the Korean animation industry, has not been 
established. Therefore, while I I commends the Petitioner for his decision to work towards 
more creative control of the planning and artistic processes for his animation projects, the record does 
not establish that his work in this regard amounts to an original contribution of major significance . 
.__ _____ __.I refers to the Petitioner andl las "forerunners of this unique industry," but 
does not provide sufficient, specific information that would support a finding that the Petitioner made 
an original contribution of major significance in his field. He notes that the Petitioner received critical 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one in determining whether 
the submitted evidence satisfies this criterion. 
6 
acclaim for~------~ and I I, and with respect to the latter, notes that it 
was "unusual for a brand new studio" to be involved in pre-production design and storyboarding along 
with animation. I I a supervising producer atl I animation, states that the 
Petitioner "has been widely recognized as one of the few pioneers who has successfully raised the 
statue [sic] of South Korean animation technique and accom lishments," noting that he has achieved 
both commercial success and artistic recognition. notes in his letter that the 
Petitioner's andl ~shave played "a key role in allowing [the~------------' 
franchise to flourish beyond what many think of as 'children's programming,"' noting that the show 
"has been met with both critical and commercial success." 
~-----__.,[ an executive producer withl I and co-creator of thel !franchise, states 
that the Petitioner "is a visionary artist and entrepreneur who has been instrumental in changing the 
course of and elevating the TV animation landscape in the United States, South Korea and beyond." 
He further stated that the Petitioner's work o~ I exceeded "all standards for what 
was considered possible for TV animation," noting that the Petitioner and his studio were able to 
"innovate the production pipeline to allow artists to produce their best work under the demands of the 
American network system." I I while offering very high praise, does not explain how 
the Petitioner elevated or changed the television animation landscape on an international basis or 
indicated that his innovations in animation production have impacted other studios. 
The submitted letters corroborate that the Petitioner's work and studio are highly regarded and that he 
has received both critical and commercial success as an animator and director; however, these 
accomplishments alone are not sufficient to satisfy the plain language of this criterion. The submitted 
letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying the Petitioner's original contributions 
and explaining the unusual influence his work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 7 Here, the letters do not demonstrate the Petitioner's impact beyond the 
projects in which he participated. 8 
The Petitioner also relies on the above-referenced published materials in support of this criterion, 
including both articles about him, and articles which praise the quality of the projects on which he has 
worked. However, as discussed, many of the submitted articles are lacking the necessary certified 
translations. Notwithstanding that evidentiary deficiency, we note that the articles, like the submitted 
letters, generally address the Petitioner's commercial and critical successes or the relative novelty of 
his studio's business model in South Korea, without identifying how he has made contributions that 
have greatly influenced or impacted the field. We acknowledge that an article that appeared on the 
Forbes magazine website q ~ mentions 
that I I" 
The article describes the series as "totally unique" and goes on to discuss the tone, themes, and subject 
matter of the series, but does not attribute these qualities to the Petitioner or his studio, nor does it 
address the show's animation or other visual components of the show as being integral to this "new 
genre." 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id.; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 9 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence.10 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that he meets this criterion based on two appointments 
associated with the South Korean government. First, he provided evidence that, in 2013, he was 
appointed by the South Korean Ministry of Science, Information, Communication and Technology 
(ICT and Future Planning, to be a member of thel I 
He also rovided evidence that, in 2012, he was "appointed as a mentor for then-South 
Korean .__ ______________ __.' noting that he was "selected for the I I 
mentoring group comprised of 11 highly-esteemed professionals in the culture, arts, ammat10n and 
media industry." While we agree with the Petitioner's statement that these appointments reflect his 
distinguished reputation in the South Korean animation industry, he did not provide information 
regarding his roles with either organization to establish how they were leading or critical, and therefore 
did not establish how his membership in either thel I I lor in the I I mentoring group satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), counsel indicated that the Petitioner "has been performing 
a leading/critical role for a number of animation companies with a distinguished reputation." 
Specifically, the Petitioner emphasized that the commercial success o~ I led 
to a video game, toys, books, and other merchandise that significantly contributed to an increase in 
profit for Nickelodeon. Counsel asserted that "[i]t was largely due to the [Petitioner's] extraordinary 
ability as an animation director and animator that made the animation such a huge success from the 
artistic and business perspectives.".__ ____________ __.also stated that "much" of the I !franchise's success "is directly due to the talents, expertise, hard work, and ingenuity of [the 
Petitioner]." While the record reflects that the Petitioner held the key role of animation director for 
episodes, it does not establish that a television series is an 
...... -o-rg_a_n_i_z-at-i-on_o_r_e_s-ta_b_l_is_h_m_e_n_t __ ,-, _R_a_t_h__,er, the record reflects that the I I franchise is the property 
of Nickelodeon Animation Studios, which contracted some of its animation work to other studios, 
including DR Movie,I lea prior employer of the Petitioner), and MOI Animation. The 
record does not contain a letter from Nickelodeon detailing how the Petitioner's role was leading or 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
10 Id at 10-11. 
8 
critical to the Nickelodeon organization as a whole, nor does it contain a letter from I~----~ 
that would establish his leading or critical role with that organization or its distinguished reputation. 
However, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner, as the founder, owner and CEO 
o~ I in Korea and in the United States, plays a leading role for these companies. Further, the 
record establishes that the Petitioner's studio enjoys a distinguished reputation as an animation 
producer, as evidenced by its partnerships to produce animated series with or for major companies 
such as Nickelodeon! I, Dream Works and Netflixl I 
and video game animations for Riot Games.__ ______ ___.· The record further reflects that, 
shortly after filing the petition,! I signed contracts to produce two additional animated Netflix 
senes. Accordingly, the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion. We disagree and find that the Petitioner 
did not submit sufficient evidence to meet his burden. 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has 
earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar 
services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner provided a copy of his IRS Form W-2 showing that he received $108,206.95 in wages 
from I I in 201 7. 11 The supporting evidence included a 2014 article published by I I titled " Salaries Revealed, From Movie Stars to Agents ( and Even 
Their Assistants), which lists an average~---..---~salary of $200,000 for an animation director. The 
Petitioner also provided a 2016 blog post titled "What Salary Can I Expect to Earn in Animation?" 
published on the website ofl !College, which states that both senior animators 
and character technical directors average at or above $100,000 in competitive areas such asc=J I I Finally, the Petitioner submitted pay data from the Department of Labor's Occupational 
Outlook Handbook which indicates that producers and directors, not accounting for geographic 
location, earn a median annual wage of $70,950 with the highest 10% earning more than $189,870. 
The article indicates that "a few of the most successful producers and directors have extraordinarily 
high earnings." 
11 The Petitioner also provided evidence of his year-end U.S. earnings for 2018. However, because this criterion requires 
evidence that he "has commanded" a high salary in the past, and because the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the 
time of filing (February 2018) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), we will evaluate evidence that pre-dates the filing 
of the petition. 
9 
The Petitioner also provided a Certificate of Income from the Korean National Tax Service that 
includes his wage and salary income for the 2015 through 2017 tax years, but did not provide 
independent evidence that would allow us to compare his foreign salary to that of others working in 
his occupation and geographic area in South Korea. Individuals working in different countries should 
be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply 
converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States. 12 Without such evidence, we cannot properly evaluate the Petitioner's previous 
earnings in Korea. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that his combined earnings from the United States and Korea for 2017 
exceeded the figures provided in the above-referenced sources. However, as noted, we will not convert 
his Korean earnings for purposes of determining whether he earned a high salary relative to other 
animation directors working in thel I area in 2017. 13 Further, the Petitioner has not 
indicated or documented how his time was divided between South Korea and the United States during 
that year, which prevents us from comparing his U.S. earnings to the provided figures. Finally, we 
note that the salary and wage resources on which the Petitioner relies include variable figures which 
lessen their probative value. For exam]le, one source indicated average annual earnings of $200,000 
for an animation director inl while another indicated a much lower average annual figure 
for the same geographic area, and neither purported to identify a "high salary" for an animation 
director in that region. The information from the Occupational Outlook Handbook is noted, but 
appears to be based on national figures, while other evidence in the record indicates that wages in the 
Petitioner's geographic are likely significantly higher than the average. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
13 We also note that the Petitioner. at the time of filing, was in the United States working as chief executive officer in L-
1 A nonimmigrant status for~-----~ a nonimmigrant classification that requires his employer to establish that 
he primarily performs managerial or executive job duties. See section 101 (a)(l5)(L) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(~ 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(1). The record does not contain a full description of the services the Petitioner has performed forc=:J 
I I :md therefore. it is unclear whether his past earnings should be compared to that of other animation producers and 
directors, or to that of other chief executives. 
10 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20499623 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a business leader with experience in strategic management, 
business development, and entrepreneurship. He holds a bachelor's degree in civil engineering and a 
master of business administration from Brazilian universities and is a 2014 graduate of the 
Owner/President Management program atl I School. The record reflects that he served 
as the president of Brazilian company! I from 2003 until March 2016, when he sold the 
company tol , a U.S.-based multinational corporation that is traded on the NASDAQ stock 
exchange. He served as country manager and managing director for I in Brazil following the 
acquisition of I I and founded! in December 2016, 
where he has since served as CEO. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed he could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that he met 
any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the referenced criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address all of the Petitioner's claims 
or evidence. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criteria claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that he is a member in an association in his field 
that requires outstanding achievements of its members, with membership eligibility judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner stated that he could meet this 
criterion based on his membership in the I I School Alumni of Brazil I land thel I With respect to the Petitioner's membership in __ 
the Director's decision references the evidence he submitted in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) but does not address the initial evidence provided in support of this criterion. Further, the 
decision does not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that his membership in _______ 
satisfies this criterion and did not address the evidence submitted in support of that claim. As the 
matter will be remanded, the Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of 
this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how the evidence supports 
his eligibility. 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted 
several articles from Brazilian publications that discuss him and his work in his field. The Director's 
decision briefly references only two of these articles and the analysis consists of a conclusory 
statement that the "articles are not big major trade publications or other major media." At the same 
time the Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence regarding the circulation 
of the publications. However, the record indicates the Petitioner's submission of documentation in 
support of his claim that one or more of the submitted articles was published in a major trade 
publication or other major media. Therefore, the decision reflects an incomplete review of the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. On remand, the Director should review the record to 
determine whether the Petitioner met this criterion at the time of filing. 
The Petitioner claims that he can meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires 
evidence of his participation as the judge of the work of others in the same or allied field, based on his 
activities with [ I and as an invited judge for a Global Student Entrepreneurs Award 
competition held by Entrepreneurs Organization (EO) in Brazil. In concluding that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that he can satisfy this criterion, the Director referenced a letter from the founding 
member ofEO that was submitted in response to the RFE but did not otherwise address the Petitioner's 
claims or evidence related to this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the Director 
3 
made a conclusory determination without reviewing most of the submitted evidence, particularly his 
activities withl I which were not acknowledged in the decision. On remand, the Director 
should review the record, including the appeal, and issue a new determination with respect to this 
criterion based on the totality of the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not sufficiently address most of the evidence he submitted and summarily concludes that 
his original contributions, though "of national importance," have not substantially impacted the 
business field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern based on the 
Director's decision what specific evidence was considered in reaching this determination. As the 
decision only vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically 
identifying any documents, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence 
submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
Finally, the Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy the "leadin or critical roles" 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his long tenure as resident of and 
based on his role as managing director and country manager for The decision, 
however, does not specifically acknowledge this claim and only briefly lists some of the evidence 
submitted in response to the RFE, without any reference to the initial evidence or the Petitioner's 
primary claim. In fact, the only evidence specifically addressed in the analysis is a letter from a client 
of the Petitioner's current employer that was not submitted in support of this criterion. The Director 
also determined that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that "the organization or establishment has 
a distinguished reputation," but it is unclear what "organization" is referenced; the Petitioner did 
submit evidence intended to establish that bothl I andl I enjoy a distinguished 
reputation in the industry, and the Director did not address why this evidence was not sufficient to 
meet the Petitioner's burden. We therefore remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not specifically contested the Director's determination with respect to 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the individual has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the same field. 
Nevertheless, as the matter is being remanded for the reasons set forth above, the Director should 
review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. As is the case with the other criteria, the 
denial only briefly addresses evidence submitted in response to the RFE and does not reflect that the 
totality of the submitted evidence was analyzed in reaching the adverse conclusion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If after review the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22654821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Beneficiary 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a marketing executive who has received recognition for his achievements in the 
development of numerous advertising campaigns for notable clients during his employment with 
several agencies. The Beneficiary's most recent work with the Petitioner resulted in his appointment 
as chief executive officer, and the Petitioner intends for the Beneficiary to continue his employment 
in that position. 
Although the Petitioner initially presented evidence to establish that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award-as well as evidence satisfying alternate criteria-the Director did 
not acknowledge that evidence as such; the Director denied the petition, determining only that the 
record did not contain evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that the 
Beneficiary received a major, internationally recognized award, as well as evidence that he meets five 
criteria addressed in the Director's final decision. As more fully discussed below, we conclude that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Also discussed below, based 
on review of the Director's decision as it relates to the evidence submitted to demonstrate several other 
evidentiary criteria, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
We conclude that the Director's decision did not provide a sufficient analysis of the evidence ofrecord 
with regard to several criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). An officer must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow 
us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of 
M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Because the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition, on remand, the 
Director should fully review the evidence of record relating to the Beneficiary's claim of a qualifying 
one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an achievement, the Director should 
fully review the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix). 
We also find that the Director erroneously assessed the evidence of record based on a misinterpretation 
of the field of extraordinary ability for which the petition requests consideration. The decision stated, 
"It appears that the awards are not in the beneficiary's field because the petitioner has indicated that 
the beneficiary's field is that of a chief executive. However, the awards submitted are for advertising 
campaigns and being an influencer." The Director's decision does not include an explanation of his 
interpretation of the chief executive officer position as a field unto itself. The present petition requests 
consideration of the Beneficiary's extraordinary business ability as a marketing executive currently 
2 
serving as the chief executive officer for an advertising agency; the petition proposes continued 
employment for the Beneficiary in that position, and the evidence demonstrates that he has held 
various positions performing crucial roles in the development of campaigns for the Petitioner's agency 
and for several international agencies. On remand, the Director should evaluate the Beneficiary as a 
chief executive officer in the field of marketing. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The record includes evidence showing 
that the Beneficiary's advertising campaign teams received two Cannes Lions Awards when he served 
as Account Supervisor atl I and Vice President of Planning at I 
Although the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's Cannes Lions constitute major, internationally 
recognized awards, the Director's decision assessed these awards and other award documentation in 
terms of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), concluding, 'There is no objective evidence to 
ascertain whether the awards or prizes are nationally recognized or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. ... " However, the record contains information from several 
reputable news sources regarding the nature of the awards and the Cannes Lions International Festival 
of Creativity itself-the annual event at which awards are issued to entrants from multiple countries. 
A USA Today article describes the event as "the Academy Awards for advertising," and an article from 
CBS News states, "The Cannes Lions Awards are, to the ad industry, their Oscars. It's where the good 
and the great gather to celebrate their best and brightest, every year." The record includes media 
reports discussing award winners for internationally recognized brands and rules for judging, as well 
as information from the Cannes Lions organization concerning entrant profiles and juror credentials. 
The Director's decision does not analyze whether the Cannes Lions Awards qualify as major, 
internationally recognized awards that demonstrate international recognition of the Beneficiary's 
achievements in the field of marketing. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence 
submitted in support of the Beneficiary's claim of a qualifying one-time achievement to determine if 
it meets the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an achievement, the Director should 
fully review the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix) as further 
detailed below. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
In addition to evidence to establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate at least three of the alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to seven criteria: 
• (i) Receipt of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor, 
• (ii) Membership in associations in the field, 
• (iii) Published material about the individual, 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field, 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance, 
3 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
• (viii) Performance of leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished 
reputations, and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the record did not contain evidence sufficient to satisfy any of the above­
listed criteria necessary for qualification as an individual of extraordinary ability in a specific field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the record includes evidence to establish eligibility for five of 
the alternate criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's Effie Awards, WARC Award, Global/4A's Jay 
Chiat Award, and CLIO Award, and the record includes information from the awards organizations 
and from objective media sources concerning previous winners and judging criteria. As described 
above, the Director concluded that these awards were not granted to the Beneficiary in the field for 
which he currently seeks classification; the Director misinterpreted the Beneficiary's field as that of 
chief executive officer, specifically, yet the awards were given for his achievements in the field of 
marketing. The Director's decision does not properly analyze the awards as they relate to the field of 
marketing. 
The Director also determined that, "while these prizes or awards reflect institutional recognition for 
excellence, they do not reflect national or international recognition for excellence in the field." The 
Director did not provide an analysis for his conclusion concerning the scope of recognition conferred 
by these awards. 
The Director also concluded, "The plain language of this criterion requires the petitioner to document 
the beneficiary's own receipt of the award .... [T]he awards appear to have been conferred to the 
specific advertising campaigns or to the beneficiary's employer. Awards presented to a third party or 
organization are not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion because the beneficiary did 
not actually receive the award." USCIS policy generally emphasizes consideration of an individual 
beneficiary's receipt of an award, as opposed to the receipt of an award by the individual's employer.1 
In this case, however, the awards were conferred to the Beneficiary as one member of a small team 
receiving recognition for its accomplishments; the evidence from the award organizations and from 
media sources identifies the Beneficiary by name as winning numerous awards for his work in leading 
roles on several teams. The Director did not provide an explanation for his conclusion that the 
Beneficiary did not receive each award. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence 
related to the Beneficiary's Effie Awards, WARC Award, Global/4A's Jay Chiat Award, and CLIO 
Award to determine ifit meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
4 
We note that the Director acknowledged that thel I Award was conferred solely to the 
Beneficiary. However, citing Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971), he points 
out that the Beneficiary received the award during a ceremony that took place from June 29, 2021, to 
July 1, 2021-after the June 16, 2021, filing date of the petition-concluding that receipt of the 
I IA ward does not demonstrate the Beneficiary's eligibility at the time of filing. The Petitioner 
has not submitted sufficient evidence indicating that the Beneficiary received thel Award 
before the filing date of the petition. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field/or which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or field. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We first note that several articles submitted by the Petitioner pertain to the Beneficiary's ___ 
award. This material cannot be evaluated as relevant and probative evidence because it was generated 
after the filing date of the petition. 2 
As to the remaining articles, the Director's decision states, 'The criterion was not met because the 
material submitted does not contain the title, date, author of the material or evidence that the published 
material qualifies as professional or major trade publications or other major media." Review of the 
record shows that some of the articles submitted do include these identifiers. Further, although the 
Director identified the articles as incomplete in a list of evidence submitted, the decision does not 
provide an analysis of the content presented; the Director concluded that the "material only cites, 
quotes, or references the beneficiary," and that there "is no discussion of the beneficiary or the 
beneficiary's work." The record contains several articles for which the Beneficiary was interviewed, 
as well as articles discussing advertisements that, as corroborated by letters of endorsement from his 
employers and colleagues, the Beneficiary was instrumental in creating. Articles also discuss! I I I a marketing tool utilizing Google technology for which the Beneficiary is lauded in letters of 
endorsement for developing. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. at 49. 
5 
As evidence of the Beneficiary's participation as a judge of others' work in the field of marketing, the 
Petitioner submitted letters from representatives from the Effie A wards, from the SME A wards, and 
from thel I School; the letters detail the Beneficiary's repeated participation as a juror, 
including as president. The Director's decision concluded that the Beneficiary served as a judge in 
the field of advertising and, again, applied an erroneous interpretation of the Beneficiary's field in 
analyzing this criterion; "While the evidence does establish that the beneficiary acted in the role of a 
judge in the field of advertising, the plain language of this criterion requires that the beneficiary judge 
the work of others in his field .... The petitioner has indicated on the Form I-140 that the beneficiary's 
field and intended employment is that of a Chief Executive Officer." On remand, the Director should 
fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to determine if it meets the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) in the Beneficiary's field of marketing. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter of M­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted articles authored by the Beneficiary. However, the decision provided a 
conclusory statement indicating the criteria was not met without analysis of the evidence submitted. 
On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in support of this criterion to 
determine ifit meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The decision acknowledged the numerous letters of endorsement from the Beneficiary's previous 
employers and colleagues and provided the following analysis: 
The letters do not show that the beneficiary was in a position of leadership for the 
organization or establishment or explain how the accomplishments went beyond a 
department or project of the organization or establishment and impacted the 
organization or establishment as a whole. 
Any organization or establishment that retains the services of an individual requires 
someone competent to provide those services. In the case of a leading role, the 
petitioner must demonstrate how the beneficiary's role fits within the overall hierarchy 
of the organization or establishment. In the case of a critical role, the beneficiary must 
have contributed to the success of the establishment or organization beyond merely 
providing necessary services. 
6 
As such, the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "did not properly discuss, address, or analyze the 
evidence presented [or] explain in any fashion whatsoever why the evidence on record was allegedly 
insufficient to meet the required burden of proof" The letters of endorsement do, in fact, attest to the 
Beneficiary's leading and critical roles while working with several organizations; they detail his 
contributions to the development of successful ad campaigns and the awards those campaigns 
garnered, and they commend the Beneficiary's formation of a new marketing tool in collaboration I I For example, a letter from I I education lead for Latin America states ( quoted as 
written), 
Google is focused on generating value I for its clients through new technological 
capabilities, especially through Cloud Platform. This platform, though 
technologically very advanced, is still finding its way into the marketing world, and I I work with I I is doing an outstanding job in getting 
these two concepts together, to the great benefit of both and 
A letter from the marketing and innovation director of states ( quoted as written), 
One of I most extraordinar achievements is the ideation and implementation 
of .. ... This model was a key selection factor when 
we decided to work with _ We have gained business against our competitors 
and some of our recent work is now considered globally best in class marketing. 
The chief strategy officer at states of the Beneficiary ( quoted as written), 
He was able to design a partnership with I I to add Big Data and analytical 
capabilities to I I that were missing before. This new breakthrough 
innovation ... has become a major commercial success that helped the company to win 
1m ortant new accounts and projects likel I Toyota, [ and] Coca-Cola .... One of 
m lihmn i hfr 
Of a campaign led by the Beneficiary for a low-performing client prepared to leavd __ a strategy 
consultant states, 
[It] was first launched in Canada in 2016. The strategy was so strong and 
resonant ... that multiple creative executions were further developed, keeping the 
campaign running for over 3 years. It was later adopted in Argentina and Australia. 
[The campaign] contributed to I I achieving its highest sales volume and 
market share results since the brand launched and outpaced category growth 3: 1. 
A letter from the chief executive officer at attests to the Beneficiary's 
contributions to the firm's recognition in the advertising field by Cannes, Adweek, and Fast Company. 
7 
In contrast to the analysis provided in the Director's decision, the evidence shows that the Beneficiary 
made a significant impact on organizations having distinguished reputations in the realms of 
advertising and technology. We conclude that the Petitioner has submitted sufficient evidence that 
meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director found that the information from various websites submitted as evidence of the 
Beneficiary's high salary relative to other comparable positions in his field was not sufficient to 
establish eligibility. Specifically, the decision stated that the positions of advertising executives and 
senior account executives for which salary information was submitted were not comparable to those 
of chief executive officers. On remand, the Director should fully evaluate all evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion to determine if it meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) as it 
pertains to the Beneficiary's expertise in the field of marketing. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address whether the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Absent such an 
achievement, the Director should fully review the alternative evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix). If the Director determines that the Petitioner has provided 
sufficient evidence of a one-time achievement or at least three of the types of alternative evidence 
listed in the regulations, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he 
is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23473811 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and filmmaker, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish he met the initial evidence requirements of this 
classification through either evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized 
award) or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We agreed with the 
Director and dismissed his appeal, which is now before us on a motion to reopen. The Petitioner bears 
the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the 
Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). 
If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where 
a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). According to the Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form 1-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion), any new facts and documentary evidence must demonstrate eligibility for the 
required immigration benefit at the time the application or petition was filed. A motion to reopen that 
does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean those that are relevant to the issues raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes within the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In support of those claims, he either: (1) offers 
new eligibility claims that were presented to the Director but that were not advanced in his appeal 
filing; (2) presents new claims that he never previously asserted before the Director or on appeal; or 
(3) submits evidence that came into being after the petition filing date. Each of these actions are 
prohibited within the current proceedings, as we explain below. 
Our review of the record reveals the Petitioner collectively asserted his claims before the Director, but 
he failed to offer all of those same claims in his appeal. When he failed to assert any previous claims 
within his appeal, he abandoned or waived those claims. 1 See Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496, 
496 n.1 (BIA 2018) ( concluding that an issue is deemed waived when it is not challenged). This means 
we will not factor those abandoned claims into this or any future motion decision based on this 
particular petition. He is, however, eligible to reintroduce these claims in any future petition filing 
(i.e., a new Form I-140). 
Also, as it relates to a motion to reopen, the requirement for "new facts" pertains to new information 
associated with the eligibility claims a filing party presented to us in their most recent filing; in this case, 
in the Petitioner's appeal brief A motion to reopen should not act as a vehicle-as a Trojan horse of 
sorts-to introduce new eligibility claims for the first time. These two concepts (new facts versus new 
eligibility claims) are distinct and are not interchangeable. New eligibility assertions advanced for the 
first time to an administrative appellate body are not properly before us. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 
408,410 n.4 (BIA 2021) (refusing to consider an appellant's humanitarian claims that were presented for 
the first time on appeal). 
We offer two examples. First, the Petitioner claimed on appeal that he was a member of the jury of 
______________ _,during the tenth edition of the Festival, and this should serve as 
one basis for satisfying the judging the work of others criterion. The Petitioner may present new facts 
that are supported by evidence relating to that judging role, but he may not now introduce new instances 
in which he may have judged the work of others that he did not present in his appeal brief, and that was 
not a part of our decision on that appeal. To illustrate, on motion the Petitioner provides claims and 
evidence that he was a member of the final round jury for the category at thel I 
I IFilm Festival. Because this is the first time he asserts this claim, it would not be appropriate 
1 For instance, in his filing before the Director under the contributions criterion, the Petitioner claimed his novel I I was commonly regarded as a major milestone of contemporary Chinese Literature. However, he did not 
advance this same claim within his appeal, and we consider it abandoned here. 
2 
for us to factor this material into our decision within these proceedings. The Petitioner, however, is free 
to submit this material in any new petition filing. 
Our second example relates to the Petitioner's claims on motion that his writing was featured in the book, I I The Petitioner did not assert this claim in his appeal, 
nor did he address it before the Director. Therefore, even though he raises it in this motion to reopen, we 
will not factor it into these proceedings. 
Finally, the Petitioner presents evidence on motion to support his new facts, but that material postdates 
the etition filin date (March 30, 2020 . For instance, a I 2022 article titled,I I 
was created after he filed the petition. 
A request for an immigration benefit "must establish that he or she is eligible for the requested benefit at 
the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to be through adjudication." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l); Ahmed v. Mukasey, 519 F.3d 579, 582 (6th Cir. 2008); Karakenyan v. US. Citizenship 
& Immigr., 468 F. Supp. 3d 50, 52 (D.D.C. 2020). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may not approve a visa petition if the Petitioner 
was not qualified at the priority date but attempts to become eligible at a subsequent time. See Matter 
of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Any additional evidence submitted in 
connection with a benefit request at a later date must also establish "eligibility at the time the benefit 
request was filed." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l2). "Under this rule, USCIS will deny [an immigration benefit] 
if the [ filing party] becomes eligible only after the [benefit] was filed." Tingzi Wang v. United States 
Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 375 F. Supp. 3d 22, 27 (D.D.C. 2019); Doe v. United States Citizenship 
& Immigr. Servs., 410 F. Supp. 3d 86, 100 (D.D.C. 2019). 
Here, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. Specifically, he has not 
offered new facts-associated with his previous eligibility claims-that are also supported by 
evidence demonstrating he satisfied either the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), or the 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) as of the date he filed the petition. The result of 
this shortcoming is that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should reopen the proceedings. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23671567 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in technical sciences in 2012 and a specialization diploma in oilfield 
chemistry in 2019. At the time of filing the instant petition, the Petitioner was employed in the oil 
industry, focusing on the development, testing, and implementation of oil production technologies 
using oilfield chemicals. He indicates that he intends to continue pursuing research in these areas in 
the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3),he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two additional criteria, 
original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and high remuneration for 
services at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).1 Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which relates to receipt oflessernationally or internationally recognized awards, 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in associations, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), regarding 
published material. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived. See, e.g., MatterofM-A-S-, 24 T&NDec. 762, 767n.2 
(BIA2009); see also See Sepulveda v. US. Att 'y Gen.,401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristovv. Roark,No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meetthis criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his contributions are not only original 
but also "of major significance in the field." For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
have been widely implemented throughout the field,have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner claimed that he has 
made several original contributions of major significance in his field, as evidenced by the fact that he 
has published several articles and is listed as an inventor on seven patents granted to his former 
employer, for inventions including a "method ofl I in a production w well," " !compound," "repair method," and "device for I 
repair or I I insulation." 
We note that a patent recognizes the originality of an idea, but it would not demonstrate that he made 
a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the significance of the innovation must be 
determined on a case-by-case basis and considered in light of other evidence in the record. The 
and ___________________________ 
Within his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
ex lained that as art of the scientific research for his 2011 doctoral dissertation titled 
he developed "technologies aimed at efficient 
operation of the __ of oil wells." He stated that "two technologies" were "successfully tested 
and implemented" at the production companies of , I and I I resulting in an increase in oil production as shown in the submitted charts and two of the 
above-referenced patented technologies. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the charts show that his technologies for I I in 
andl !resulted in additional oil production and cost savings. While 
the Petitioner's research appears to have been novel, the Petitioner did not establish, for example, that 
the technologies he developed and successfully tested in and I 
oil production companies have widely impacted the field, so as to demonstrate original contributions 
of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
In addition, although the Petitioner provided evidence indicatingthe originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, as discussed below, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance or support his 
claim that his original contributions have already impacted the field. Although they reflectthe novelty 
of the projects on which he worked, they do not show how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance, and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this 
criterion. For instance, a letter from a a petroleum engineer, provides that as part 
of his work as an independent expert related to maintaining the production volumes of I oil fields 
he met with the Petitioner, who headed the department of complications control at thel I 
research center. He states that the Petitioner implemented projects and tested effective technologies 
3 
for protecting oil field equipment from corrosion, scaling, and wax in I I fields. He provides that 
the Petitioner published "several dozen" scientific articles and made several presentations at scientific 
conferences. I la former petroleum engineer with "BP," met the Petitioner at a BP­
hosted scientific conference where they discussed challenges to the I I oil field, such as 
corrosion and the formation of inorganic and organic scales. He describes the Petitioner as "a very 
talented scientist and technologist" who "holds several patents for inventions" and whose areas of 
scientific interest are "very relevant to tackling the challenges related to oil and gas production and 
enhanced oil production." 
Further, the Petitioner submitted a letter from _____ who indicates he worked with the 
Petitioner in 2014 in "selecting the effective repair and isolation technologies" forl I oil wells. 
He summarizes the findings of the Petitioner's doctoral research on the development of new 
technology designed to isolate numerous failures of the production string, and he provides that "[t]he 
novelty of his research is confirmed by patents of the Russian Federation." These three letters are not 
sufficiently detailed to explain how the Petitioner's research in the area of in in 
production strings and I I is considered to be an original contribution of major 
significance, as claimed. Overall, the letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the 
novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of 
contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance in the Petitioner's field. The 
authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely 
implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a 
demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the Petitioner's patents, excerpts of his published 
findings, and reference letters from his colleagues, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive 
in his field, but it does not demonstrate the extent to which his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." In 2010, the 
Kazarian court reaffirmed its holding that we did not abuse our discretion in our adverse finding 
relating to this criterion because the contributions in question were not major. 596 F.3d at 1122. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.P.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that his salary "is 2.5 times higher than the average monthly salary of w01kers 
in professional, scientific and technical activities in the Russian Federation" and "five times higher 
than the average monthly salary in the region of [ the Petitioner's] work -the I I I I" In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The Petitioner's 
initial submission provided his 2017, 2018, and 2019, income tax documentation reflecting that his 
earnings for those years averaged approximately 168,230 rubles per month. Within the Petitioner's 
response to the Director's RFE, he submitted his 2020 income tax documentation reflecting his 
4 
earnings through August 2020 averaged approximately 241,698 rubles per month. 2 In addition, he 
provided 2020 average monthly wages for "Professional, scientific and technical activities (section 
M)" from the Federal Service of State Statistics FSSS showing the average monthly wage in Russia 
of 80,077 rubles and in the _______ of 56,269 rubles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits four on-line articles to demonstrate that his salary was high relative 
to others in the field. However, we note that the articles appear to be English translations but are not 
accompanied by a copy of the original untranslated articles corresponding to these materials.3 
Moreover, we will not consider new eligibility claims or evidence in our adjudication of this appeal 
See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put 
on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record 
before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal of any purpose" and that "we 
will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We have therefore limited our review to the materials in 
the record at the time of the Director's decision. 
Although the Petitioner likens his salary to the average wages in the general field of prof essionaL 
scientific, and technical activities, the Petitioner did not show that he commands a high salary "in 
relation to others in the field," such as other petroleum scientists in Russia. See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers);Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Furthern10re, the 
salary information from FSSS reflects the average wages rather than the high salaries of petroleum 
scientists in Russia. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
2 Because this criterion requires evidence that the Petitioner"has commanded" a high salary in the past, and because the 
Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing (September 2020) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l ), we 
will evaluate evidence that pre-dates the filing of the petition. 
3 Regarding the submission of foreign language documents, the regulation provides that the Petitioner shall submit such 
documents accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3 ). It does not indicate that 
English language translations maybe provided in lieu of foreign language documents. 
5 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 10, 2024 In Re: 29022284 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, amakeup artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by apreponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -
(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), related to judging others' work. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in thefieldfor which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional 
or major trade pubI ications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.1 
The Petitioner submitted articles about herself and her makeup artistry work, which were written in 
rint media, online versions of rint media, and on various media sites, including I I 
,_____________________________ __,. Although the 
Petitioner attested that she provided all necessary English translations in accordance with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3), this is not readily apparent as it relates to the articles provided. Certain details, such as 
the authors' names, appear to be absent in the original, but present in the translated English version.I lare examples of where this appears to have occurred. In 
one instance, a date appears in the original version but is not readily apparent in the translation. For 
instance, the date "17.08.22" appearing in the original of the I I printout is not translated. 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
2 
While we acknowledge that this is likely the date a user printed the article from her computer, it is not 
conclusive based on the translation provided. The I I printout appears to be in the 
classified section of the magazine, along with other advertisements, which are not fully translated. As 
this appears to be self-promotional in nature and about the Petitioner's salon, we cannot conclude that 
it supports the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. The length of the I I article is 
significantly longer in the original than in the English version and the headings differ between the 
original and the translation. Similarly, the length of the I I article in the original suggests 
that the English version is truncated or not fully translated. Because of these translation concerns, the 
articles carry less probative value. 
Many of the photos associated with the news sources lack credits or attributions, even in the original. 
Here, we have little evidence in the articles themselves that links the Petitioner to the specific photos. 
In other words, most articles do not indicate that the model in the photo wears makeup the Petitioner 
applied. 
In addition to these issues, we conclude the Petitioner has not sufficiently established that these news 
sources are professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner provided 
letters from the president of thel I. The union president states that the 
February 2011 and September 2015 editions ofl Imagazine reached 14,000 printed copies; 
however, the Petitioner has not explained how the number of printed copies of two isolated editions 
of a magazine establishes thatI I is a major medium, nor has the Petitioner explained how 2011 
and 2015 figures are relevant when the article about the Petitioner appeared in a 2019 edition. 
The union president wrote that circulation of more than 1,000 copies establishes that a magazine is a 
leading magazine in Armenia. The president also stated that I I is a leading magazine 
by Armenian standards; however, the president does not explain how being a leading magazine is 
synonymous with "major media." Furthermore, in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner provided evidence that does not support the union president's statements. 
Specifically, the Mapping Digital Media: Armenia report from 2013 states that a circulation of 2,000 
to 6,000 in a printed daily news is "very low." While we acknowledge that I I may 
not be considered a "daily" publication, the circulation figures cited do not appear to support the union 
president's conclusion that 1,000 printed copies establishes that amagazine is "leading" in Armenia. 
The Mapping Digital Media: Armenia report provides information about the most popular national 
dailies in 2008-2009; which newspapers had the highest subscription numbers in 2011; howc==J 
increased its web traffic over the course of October 2010 to September 2011; and howi====J 
received more than 125,000 Facebook likes in 2013. While we acknowledge these statistics, none 
appear to establish that the referenced news sources are "major media" or were at the time the news 
sources published articles about the Petitioner. Further, the Petitioner has not explained how general 
web traffic and Facebook likes are akin to circulation figures. 
The I I article reports on the history of digital media and internet usage in Armenia. 
Although the article referenced las a being a pioneer of digital media in the first years of 
Armenian independence, the Petitioner has not explained how this establishes the "major media" status 
of I ror the other various news sources that published articles about the Petitioner. The 
article states, "most newspapers have a circulation ofseveral hundred to several thousand copies." We 
3 
acknowledge that~---------~ are not necessarily newspapers; however, such 
circulation claims again undermine the union president's conclusions that 1,000 printed copies 
establish a magazine is "leading" in Armenia. Specifically, if most newspapers have a circulation of 
several hundred to several thousand copies, a circulation of 1,000 caries appears to be very average 
and not indicative of a "leading" status. Without more context, the_ Iarticle is of 
little probative value in this matter. 
The director of a company that provides automated media monitoring, wrote that 
I I has always been in the list of 15 Armenian online media with the largest number of 
visitors within the last five months" and "[f]or the last five monthsl Iwebsite has 
constantly been [] within the six most-visited Armenian online media." Even accepting these 
statements as fact, we cannot conclude that a ranking in the top 15 for web visitors establishesI I status as a major medium or that the number of visits to ~ Iestablishes that 
it is major media. We agree with the Director's conclusion that web traffic to an internet site is not 
necessarily comparable to circulation statistics of a print version, nor are user-edited websites 
necessarily indicative of major media. I I
While we acknowledge Similar Web statistics and the Yahoo article about Similar Web, neither source 
sufficiently demonstrates how the media that published articles about the Petitioner are professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. Statistics such as country rankings, category 
rankings, and total visits do not in themselves explain or show the significance of the figures. 2 For 
instance, high subscription rates may indicate that a news source's subscription is free rather than paid. 
Without more context, rankings alone do not indicate that a medium has major status or standing. 
While Similar Web can offer a greater understanding of online behavior, it is not necessarily 
comparable to circulation statistics. 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's or;ginal scientific. scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.3 
The Petitioner submitted recommendation letters, awards, diplomas, and certificates for our 
consideration under this criterion. The Director concluded: 
The letters commend you and speak highly of your skillset, membership, makeup, work 
collaborations, and the work you have performed in the field; however, the letters do 
2 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
4 
not demonstrate that you[r] contributions were both original and of major significance 
in the field... You did not submit independent, objective evidence that your 
contributions are "original" and have significantly influenced the field-reaching far 
beyond your employer(s) and customers/clients. 
We agree with the Director's conclusions about the recommendation letters. For instance, I I wrote that the Petitioner has a "unique technique" for smoky eyes and contouring; 
however, Ms. I I does not explain the technique, nor does she suggest that the Petitioner 
originated the smoky eye or contouring makeup trend. Other documents contain assertions, including 
that the Petitioner "invented a unique style in makeup," "introduced innovations," and has a "unique 
approach" and a "unique program for teaching makeup." While we acknowledge these statements, 
most authors do not explain what the unique technique, approach, program, or innovation is; how it is 
attributable to the Petitioner; or how it affected the field. D 
Two letters explain that false eyelashes were financially unaffordable for most people in Armenia but 
that the Petitioner utilized an eyeliner technique obviating the need for false eyelashes. However, the 
authors of such letters do not sufficiently support their conclusions that eyeliner, even winged eyeliner, 
is an original idea or that the Petitioner invented it, nor do they explain the Petitioner's technique with 
detail sufficient to differentiate her technique from other eyeliner techniques. Another letter claims 
the Petitioner was the first to make makeup an art; however, there is little explanation in the letter to 
support this claim, nor is there independent and objective evidence in the record to substantiate it. If 
the Petitioner were the first to make makeup an art, this would then appear to suggest that the Petitioner 
engendered the term "makeup artist;" however, it is common knowledge that the term "makeup artist" 
long predates any specific person's work. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field add value.4 On the other hand, letters that lack 
specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.5 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Here, 
the letters' authors offer general and conclusory statements that have little foundation or evidentiary 
support. As such, they are not probative of the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
Although the recommendation letters are juxtaposed with photos of models wearing makeup, there are 
few credits or attributions attached to the photos within the articles th~s to establish the 
Petitioner as the models' makeup artist. Many photos appear to come fromL__J magazine, but we 
cannot determine how these and other photos are contributions to the field of makeup artistry. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided photos from a flower and gift shop.I land a letter 
explaining that she provided the makeup for the models in their 20191 Ievent. The 
Petitioner has not explained how the makeup provided for the models in this event is a contribution to 
the field of makeup artistry. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she collaborated with a;....;h..:..:a,;,;:.;ir..:..:s.;;,,,.t '-'-li:...:.s..:....t..:..:fo'-'-r......________ __.I lhair competitions and that her collaborator,~ _____ __., won a best photo 
4 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
award for his hairstyle. Mrj Iattributes his win partly to the Petitioner for reatin~ makeup 
that complemented the hairstyle and was unique, but neither the award, nor the publicity 
surrounding it, mentions the Petitioner or her makeup. While such an award may be notable in 
photography, the Petitioner has not provided evidence that she received an award, that award is in the 
field of makeup artistry, or that her work was an original contribution. Even if she had, the Petitioner 
would still need to establish how winning such an award is of major significance to her field. Although 
a model's makeup may be creative and customized, this does not necessarily establish its originality 
or significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also received certificates of participation in various beauty events, as well as a 
certificate of gratitude from Armenia's tourism department. While these awards and certificates 
establish her ongoing work in the field, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish 
how they constitute original contributions that have been majorly significant to the makeup industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that her personal achievements are original contributions 
which have been of major significance to the field of makeup artistry or the beauty industry, we 
conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The petitioner must establish that she has performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment.6 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.7 To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner relied upon photos, recommendation letters, and 
documents evidencing that she owns and operates her own makeup studio in Armenia, among other 
pieces of evidence. 
~-~!magazine appears to have published many of the photos the Petitioner provided for our 
consideration; however, we cannot determine how these photos establish the Petitioner has performed 
in a leading or critical role tori I For instance, re photr and accompanying documents do not 
suggest that the Petitioner is a staff makeup artist for or that she is the only makeup artist to 
work withl Inor can we isolate the makeup as the leading or critical piece of the photos or 
magazine. 
In the initial filing, the 20191 Ievent appeared to be a promotional campaign for the 
Ishop. Nothing in the photographs or event promotional materials reference the 
Petitioner or her work. The focus of the event appears to be on the flowers, while the makeup is neutral 
and similar across all of the models. It is not apparent from the record whether the Petitioner served 
as an employee of for this s ecific event or in some other capacity. Accordingly, 
even if we were to conclude that ,_______ ~shop has a distinguished reputation, the 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id. 
6 I 
Petitioner's evidence ofher role with the shop or within the~I ----~I event would be insufficient 
to establish her eligibility under this criterion. 
While opera singers, television presenters, and plastic surgeons may use the Petitioner's services, the 
Petitioner has not explained how this establishes her eligibility under this criterion. These authors 
respect the Petitioner and compliment the work she performed for them; however, their letters do not 
sufficiently explain how her role as their personal makeup artist is leading or critical, nor does the 
Petitioner explain how individual clients, even famous ones, constitute "organizations or 
establishments." Similarly, a business' appreciation of the Petitioner's services does not necessarily 
establish the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for the business. Even if an opera singer 
performing in the national theater or philharmonic utilized the Petitioner's makeup services, the 
evidence does not demonstrate the Petitioner is the only makeup artist the opera singer uses, that the 
theater or philharmonic credits the Petitioner's work in their productions, or that the Petitioner is 
mentioned as part of the theater or philharmonic's creative team. As such, the evidence is insufficient 
to demonstrate the nature of her role, let alone that it is leading or critical. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she owns and operates her own makeup studio. While we agree 
that her role for her own business may be leading or critical, the Petitioner has not established that her 
studio has a distinguished reputation. The evidence suggests the Armenian tourism department gave 
the Petitioner's studio a gratitude certificate; however, neither the certificate nor the accompanying 
documents explain why or how this confers a distinguished reputation upon the Petitioner's studio. 
Based upon the evidence provided, the gratitude certificate could have been awarded for volunteer 
work performed or money donated to the philharmonic and have little relation to or bearing upon her 
studio's reputation. Similarly, the studio's lnstagram and Facebook page, as well as photos of her 
trainees with their ce1iificates, do not establish the studio's distinguished reputation, paiiicularly as 
the Petitioner created most of this content herself. Positive social media reviews and her student 
trainees' subsequent success may establish the popularity or quality of the Petitioner's services; 
however, this is insufficient to establish that opinions about the studio are widespread and indicative 
of distinguishment. 
As the foregoing analysis demonstrates, the Petitioner has not established she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
Although the Petitioner asserts eligibility under this criterion, we need not discuss it. In the initial 
filing, the Petitioner asserted her eligibility under five of ten criteria. The Director determined the 
Petitioner satisfied eligibi I ity under one of those five. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts her eligibility 
under that criterion as well as the other four criteria under which she initially asserted eligibility. We 
analyzed three of these four criteria and determined the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
them. As such, we need not analyze the remaining criterion. Even if the Petitioner established 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating to artistic showcases, she would not be able to 
establish that she meets at least three of the ten criteria required for this visa classification. As the 
7 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve the issue of her eligibility under the artistic showcase criterion.8 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that establish she meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23792156 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), requiring documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). We summarily 
dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider, which we dismissed because it was filed untimely. Subsequently, the Petitioner filed 
a second appeal, and we rejected that as improperly filed. 
He then filed four subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also dismissed . 
The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 
291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). According to the Instructions for Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form 1-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion), any new facts and documentary evidence must demonstrate eligibility for the 
required immigration benefit at the time the application or petition was filed. A motion to reopen that 
does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. Multiple motion 
filings serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in 
immigration proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to 
remain in the United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) 
(citing INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). 
USCIS has the latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely 
can create endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government 
resources attending to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing 
party bears a "heavy burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with 
each subsequent motion filing. Id. 
The issues here are whether the Petitioner: (1) has submitted new facts, supported by documentary 
evidence, to warrant reopening, and (2) has established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in dismissing his fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. And the matters the 
Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues discussed within our most 
recent decision; the decision on their fifth motion. General support that a motion must first overcome 
the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly 
discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one has to file a motion after the most 
recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses numerous decisions throughout this process, but he 
does not directly take on our most recent dismissal of his motions in our May 6, 2022 decision. He 
discusses our 2018 summary dismissal partly dismissed for a lack of a follow-on brief, claims he 
mailed that brief to us in a timely manner, and discusses delays in filing a subsequent motion and any 
reasonable reasons for that delay. He also references our July 2020 decision on his third motion and 
turns his other arguments to the merits of the Director's initial decision from August 2018. The 
Petitioner's opportunity to make the arguments relating to these past decisions was in the filing that 
immediately followed each of those decisions. We reiterate that the Petitioner must first address the 
contents of our most recent decision from May 2022, but he does not adequately do so here. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our May 
2022 dismissal. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
2 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should either reopen the proceedings, nor has he 
established we should reconsider our May 6, 2022 decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24187550 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that 
decision, as well as three subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider. The matter is now 
before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts to be proved and be supported by affidavits or other evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, 
and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of 
the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the benefit sought. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) . Accordingly, we 
examine any new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissing the Petitioner's third 
motion to reopen, and whether we erred in determining that the Petitioner did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing the third motion to reconsider. 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314,323, (1992) (citingINSv. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief The Petitioner provides a brief description of her work 
experience and some highlights of her achievements that have been previously outlined in the record. 
Since the current motion to reopen does not include new facts or new evidence, the motion does not meet 
the requirement of a motion to reopen and must be dismissed. 
Regarding the motion to reconsider, we stress again that in order to have established merit for 
reconsideration of our latest decision the petitioner must both state the reasons why the petitioner 
believes the most recent decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy; and 
specifically cite laws, regulations, precedent decisions, and/or binding policies that the petitioner 
believed we misapplied in our prior decision. 
In this case, the prior decision at issue is our decision dated May 26, 2022, whereby we dismissed the 
motion to reconsider since the brief submitted with the third motion was almost identical to the brief 
submitted with the second motion. The current motion brief states that we abused our discretion by 
applying the incorrect legal standard but did not provide any evidence to support this claim. To prevail 
in a motion to reconsider, the petitioner cannot merely disagree with our conclusions, but rather it 
must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy in our immediate prior decision. See 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process 
by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally 
alleging error in the prior decision.) 
Accordingly, although we acknowledge that the Petitioner submits a brief, we determine that the 
Petitioner does not directly address the conclusions we reached in our immediate prior decision or 
provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. Likewise, the brief in support of the current 
motion also lacks any cogent argument as to how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing 
the prior motion to reconsider. 
In light of the above, we conclude that this motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider and must therefore be dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In this matter, the Petitioner has not overcome our prior decision or shown proper cause to reopen or 
reconsider this matter. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not 
met that burden. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23069520 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur and business development executive , seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification through evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material about him at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets five additional 
evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he was among I I 
professionals" who received a " Award" (2021) from " " 3 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
2 Id. 
3 The Petitioner presented a 22021 article, entitled "Publisher honors I I immigrants in the 
community" posted at www. .com. This articles states: 
2 
Promotional material offered by the Petitioner for this award indicates that "[t]he creation of the I I award has several meanings, but the key point is to highlight stories with ethical, moral 
and social values from people who were hitherto little known and who now have the chance to make 
public in the globalized publishing universe, in which we specialize." 
While the Petitioner provided promotional information about his award from and 
coverage in several newspapers serving the I I community in the United States4, this 
documentation does not indicate the national or international significance of his "
A ward" award in the field of endeavor. 5 The record does not include evidence demonstrating that the 
Petitioner's award was recognized by the field in general rather than mainly limited to the readership 
of a fewl I newspapers published in the United States. Nor does the evidence show that the 
limited media coverage relating to the Petitioner's award rises to the level of national or international 
recognition. Without further evidence regarding its national or international significance in his field, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his " Award" award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established he meets this 
regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted his "membership diploma" from the I Institute of 
Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Sustainable Development -I He also presented 
information describing the organization's goals, mission, and target membership. This documentation 
does not indicate that the selection process for I I requires outstanding achievements or 
that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
With the appeal, the Petitioner submits a declaration from the I I Institute of Corporate 
Governance stating that he has been a member sincd 12022, but this membership post-dates the 
filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
Having reviewed the evidence submitted under this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
an an American company founded in 2017 by hiving in the United States, to represent, promote, 
edit and distribute books by I writers in the United States. The objective of the award is to highlight the biography 
of these immigrants." 
4 For example, the Petitioner submitted articles in ,I Land I I 
The record also includes an article in (a news portal serving the city ofl I in southeast but 
this article received only "11 views" according to the webpage presented by the Petitioner. 
5 Consideration for this award appears limited to I ]men working in the United States. Cf., Strategati, LLC v 
Sessions, 2019 WL 2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award eliminated men from 
consideration and thus did not "measure the petitioner's standing or selection from the whole field.") 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has judged the work of other professionals in the field while 
conducting his business affairs." He argues that "[w]hile managing strategies, functions, processes, 
activities, staff, and strategic alliances, [his] judgments about the work of others have produced 
substantial accomplishments for his business ventures." The Petitioner further asserts that he "must 
judge the works of others in order to coherently and effectively manage the myriad facets of the large­
scale real estate development projects." 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner does not point to specific evidence in the record demonstrating that 
he meets this criterion. To fulfill this criterion, the evidence must show that an individual "actually 
participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization."6 Here, 
the Petitioner has not offered evidence to demonstrate that he has participated, either individually or 
on a panel, as a judge of the work of others. The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a 
judging capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Nor has the Petitioner shown that performing managerial responsibilities as part of 
his business affairs constitutes his participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the field. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they served in a leading or critical role for 
an organization or establishment, and that the organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. 7 The Director determined that the Petitioner had performed in a leading role for both I I andl I but that his evidence was 
insufficient to demonstrate that either company has a distinguished reputation. 8 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that both "companies enjoy a distinguished reputation within their 
field." He points to a 2017 7 ress release he osted throu h AB Newswire a aid ress release 
distribution service) entitled _____ ." In addition, the Petitioner provided a 2020 article in ( a 
newspaper serving the I I community in the United States) entitled ' [the 
Petitioner]." The record also includes articles entitled' entitled "---------,-------the Petitioner" Forbes.com _____ [the Petitioner] 
"(T2conline.com), "[The Petitioner ________________ 
' (NYundressed. com), "[The Petitioner] 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
7 "Merriam-Webster's online dictionar.Y. defines distin uished as marked b eminence distinction or excellence." Id. 
8 The record includes letters of suppo 
and discussing the Petitioner's role fo and _____ 
but these individuals do not elaborate on the reputation of the Petitioner's two companies or identify specific 
examples of evidence indicating that they have garnered a distinguished reputation. 
4 
" (Im actwealth.com , "The Petitioner 
FSHNma azine.com), and ______________________ 
(T2conline.com)." While these articles discuss the Petitioner and his 
property, they do not mentio_,_ _____________ and ______ 
Accordingly, the aforementioned articles do not demonstrate that either company has a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also submitted an article entitled " I I " !Business Journal). This articles states that I 
currently owns the three land parcels that I I would be built on, according to county records. 
The is tied to al -based holding company that acquired the three properties .... " This 
limited information, however, is insufficient to show that[ I Art Services, enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. 
With the appeal, the Petitioner resents a 
the Petitioner 2022 PRNewswire ress release entitled' 
' He also provides 2022 article in Business Journal entitled __________ o p___ a ___ 2____ in Business Jo
" These two '------------------------------------' articles post-date the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established he meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, membership, 
judging, or leading or critical role. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for an additional criterion 
on appeal, relating to original contributions of major significance in the field at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a 
determination on the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24533939 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bioinformatics research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an experienced research scientist in the field ofbioinformatics. 
She has a bachelor's degree in electrical and computer engineering from I I University of 
Science and Technology and completed her graduate studies at University in China, where she 
received her Ph.D. in control science and engineering in 2006. The Petitioner indicates that she has 
held post-doctoral research positions in bioinformatics at Thel I Universit of 
University of Technology of ______ _.University, and University At the 
time of filing, she was employed as a bioinformatics analyst at the University of _ College of I I The Petitioner states that she intends to continue her research work in the bioinformatics 
field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in her field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that she has published scholarly articles in 
"Cell, Stem Cell, Nature Communications and Advanced Science" and therefore met the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Director also determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) based on evidence that she peer-reviewed 
manuscripts submitted for publication in several scientific journals. However, the Director concluded 
2 
that the evidence did not establish that she had made original contributions of major significance in 
her field and denied the petition without reaching a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision contains fundamental errors of fact which 
suggest that the denial was not based on a review of all evidence she submitted in support of her 
petition and may in fact have involved review of an unrelated petition. Specifically, she notes that 
although the Director determined that she met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) based on her 
authorship of scholarly articles, the decision indicates that she published in Cell, Stem Cell, and 
Advanced Science. She emphasizes that she neither claimed nor submitted evidence that she published 
in these journals. The Petitioner also notes that the Director's discussion of the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) contains a reference to "additional letters" submitted in response to 
a request for evidence (RFE) but asserts that she did not provide this evidence in response to an RFE. 
Finally, the Petitioner emphasizes that the decision primarily refers to her by "he/him/his" pronouns, 
but the petition and supporting evidence clearly indicate that female pronouns are appropriate. 
After reviewing the record in its totality, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the 
Director's decision contains factual errors, including references to evidence that was not submitted in 
support of this petition. In addition, as discussed further below, the Director's discussion of the 
original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) is conclusory and does not specifically 
address the Petitioner's claims or the evidence submitted in support of the criterion. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision contains 
factual errors and does not provide a sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial with respect to 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we will withdraw that decision and remand for further review 
and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion below. 
Despite the referenced factual errors, the record supports a determination that the Petitioner has 
published scholarly articles in scientific journals such as Nature Communications and the Journal of 
the National Academy of Sciences, and that she has judged the work of others in her field by peer 
reviewing manuscripts submitted to journals for publication. Therefore, the record demonstrates that 
she satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not address the evidence she submitted with any specificity and instead summarily 
concluded that the evidence was insufficient. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult 
to discern based on the Director's decision what specific evidence was considered in reaching this 
determination. As the decision only vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, 
without specifically identifying the evidence considered, the Director should re-examine the 
Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those claims when evaluating this criterion 
on remand. In addition to detailed letters from both colleagues and independent experts in her field, 
the Petitioner's evidence in support of the original contributions criterion included the Petitioner's 
citation record from Google Scholar, evidence related to the journals that published her work and their 
3 
respective rankings and impact factors, documentation of "notable citations" intended to demonstrate 
how her research contributions have impacted the field, information regarding the governmental 
entities that have funded her previous work, and a supporting letter that contains a 13-page explanation 
of her specific contributions in the field. 
Finally, in addition to the issues addressed above, the record before us on appeal appears to be 
incomplete. The record reflects that the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) on April 11, 
2022. The decision indicates that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) received a 
response to the RFE on July 5, 2022 that included "a letter, an updated detailed citation record, 
additional support letters, and a more detailed account of the beneficiary's published work." While 
USCIS systems indicate receipt of an RFE response on that date, the RFE response has not been 
incorporated into the record. We also note that the Petitioner states on appeal that she did not submit 
"additional support letters" in response to an RFE. It is the responsibility of the Director to ensure 
that the record is complete and contains all evidence that has been submitted by the Petitioner or 
considered by USCIS in reaching its decision. See, e.g., Matter of Gibson, 16 I&N Dec. 58, 59 (BIA 
1976); 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
previously submitted evidence and to ensure that the record of proceedings is complete and includes 
any response the Petitioner submitted in response to the Director's RFE. If after review the Director 
determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an analysis of 
the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081680 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 14, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician specializing in obstetrics and gynecology , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that satisfies three or more of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
the totality of the evidence did not demonstrate his sustained national or international acclaim or that 
he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that the Director did 
not consider all of the submitted evidence or adequately explain why the evidence was insufficient to 
establish his eligibility for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in obstetrics and gynecology. He received his Bachelor of 
Medicine and Doctor of Medicine degrees froml !university Health Science Center in 2006 and 
2009, respectively. At the time of frng inlMay 2018, he was employed as an attending physician at 
the Reproductive Medical Center of University! I Hospital inl I China. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria for published material in 
professional publications or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and scholarly articles under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner peer reviewed at least one manuscript for the Chinese Medical 
Journal. In addition, he authored scholarly articles published in journals such as Journal of Practical 
Obstetrics & Gynecology, Reproduction and Contraception, and International Journal of Gynecology 
and Obstetrics. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and 
scholarly articles criteria. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the 
Director's finding that the Petitioner satisfied the published materials and original contributions 
criteria. Further, we agree with the Director's determination that although the Petitioner initially 
claimed to meet the criteria relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
2 
and membership in an association requiring outstanding achievements of its members, he did not 
submit sufficient evidence to show that he met either of these criteria. Accordingly, after reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initirlly claimed eligibility under this criterion based on: two awards that he received 
from his employer University! I Hospital); student awards from his university I I 
University) including a scholarship award, merit student awards, and doctoral student awards; and an 
award from the China National I I, which he received in 2000 when he was a high 
school student. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner emphasized that the 
following are qualifying awards: 1 
• 2013 Second Prize of Academic Presentation in Obstetrics and Gynecology Department of 
I !University 
• 2000 First Prize, China National I~-----~ 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's prizes or awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
With respect to the Petitioner's second prize in the I O !university academic presentation 
competition ( also referred to as the "Youth Thesis Report Summit") he stated that the competition was 
open to physicians at 24 university-affiliated hospitals. The Petitioner explained that each hospital 
had its own competition, with the winning doctor( s) from each obstetrics and gynecology department 
chosen to represent his or her hospital for the final round. Finally, he stated that 17 doctors presented 
their papers in the final competition, and a panel of experts determined the winners of one first prize, 
two second prizes, and three third prizes. Although the Petitioner emphasized that some of the 
competing doctors were from hospitals with highly ranked obstetrics and gynecology departments, the 
evidence did not establish that this prize is a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence. Rather, the submitted evidence indicates that the competition was limited to participants 
employed within I !University's hospital network and entry appears to have been further 
restricted to younger physicians. 
1 The Petitioner did not pursue his initial claim that the remainder of the referenced awards meet this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that an award limited to competitors from a single 
institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 
3 Id. 
3 
The Petitioner submitted an article titled I I I I which was published in Health News in I 12013. While the article reports on the 'l I 
University Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Forum and Youth Papers Conference" in which 
the Petitioner participated and includes an excerpt of a paper attributed to him, it does not state that he 
won an award or prize at the conference. The Health News article mentions that the "youth paper 
report meeting" is held every year "to encourage young people to be motivated and enterprising." This 
~rticle does not support the Petitioner's claim that the second prize award he received from 
L___JUniversity is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
field. The only other submitted media coverage for this conference was an article related to the 2014 
annual conference; however, the Petitioner does not claim that he participated in the competition in 
that year. 
With respect to the China National I I the Petitioner submitted a "prize certificate" 
stating that he won "First Prize of I Province" in this competition. This certificate does not 
support the Petitioner's claim that he won first prize at the national-level competition. In fact, a 
statement from the I I High School Students Competition Office indicates that 20 first prize awards 
are given at the provincial level. While it appears that the competition drew from a field of highly 
talented high school students, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's first prize award in a 
regional contest was a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field of 
endeavor. In addition, an award limited to participants of a certain age or those with student status 
may be a relevant factor in determining whether the overall field acknowledges it for excellence. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the Chinese 
Medical Association (CMA). He explained that membership requires "evidence that you are an active 
practicing medical doctor in good standing." The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the CMA's 
website which provides general information regarding the purpose of the organization and indicates 
that it is a non-profit association for medical professionals and technologists with 500,000 members. 
He did not document his CMA membership or provide any additional evidence regarding the CMA's 
membership requirements. However, based on the Petitioner's own statements, membership in the 
CMA appears to be granted to any individuals who are able to demonstrate that they are practicing 
physicians in good standing. Therefore, the Petitioner did not meet his burden to demonstrate that he 
is a member of an association that requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national 
or international experts in their disciplines. This criterion has not been met. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion; however, we disagree and will withdraw 
that finding. 
The Petitioner submitted the aforementioned on-line article from Health News (jkb.com.cn) in support 
of this criterion. As noted above, the article reports on thel !University Department of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology Forum and Youth Papers Conference. The article notes that "three papers on 
reproductive medicine related to this report are published, and experts are invited to comment." It 
includes excerpts from three papers presented at the conference, including the Petitioner's paper, as 
well as a section in which a professor atl IUniversityl Is Hospital comments on the research 
presented. However, while the article mentions the Petitioner as the author of the paper titled 
.__ _________________ __.' it does not otherwise mention him. For this reason, 
we cannot conclude that the article is "about" the Petitioner as required by the plain language of the 
regulation. 
Further, the Petitioner did not support his claim that Health News can be classified as a professional 
or major trade publication or other major medium. Initially, the Petitioner submitted information from 
the publication which describe it as a "health profession newspaper" serving "all levels of health 
administration personnel, medical and health workers and the general public." Later, in response to a 
request for evidence, the Petitioner described it as a "leading newspaper" ranked among China's top 
100 newspapers. The Petitioner provided an article from a Chinese government website 
(www.gapp.gov.cn) which lists the "Top 100 Newspapers and Periodicals" for 2018. While Health 
News is included among the top 100 newspapers (which are listed in no particular order), the article 
does not identify the criteria for inclusion on the list and we cannot determine based on the evidence 
submitted that this publication's website qualifies as major media based on its circulation or 
distribution relative to other online Chinese publications. We note that the record reflects that the 
same Chinese government agency published a separate top 100 list for scientific journals, and therefore 
we cannot determine that Health News should be classified, in the alternative, as a professional 
publication. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that his professional profile is included on the Chinese website 
Good Doctor (Haodf.com), which is described as a healthcare community platform that assists patients 
with finding doctors. He submitted samples of comments and reviews written by his patients, but 
these reviews on an Internet healthcare platform do not meet the plain language of this criterion, which 
requires published materials about the Petitioner and his work in the field published in professional or 
other major trade publications or other major media. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a print article titled I I' published by Xishuangbanna Daily 
newspaper in 201 7. The article identifies the Petitioner as one of four doctors from his hospital who 
were to provide "medical technical support" at the I Is Hospital ofl I for a period 
of three months. The brief article mentions his educational background and medical specialty, but is 
not about him and his work in the field. Further, the limited information provided rerrding the I I Daily indicates that it is "an official newspaper of the I _ Prefecture 
Committee of the Communist Party of China." This evidence is insufficient to establish that this 
newspaper, which appears to be regional in nature, is considered major media in China. 
5 
The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner recorded a series of 33 "question and answer" 
videos on various topics in reproductive medicine for the online platform "Y oulai Doctor" 
(www.youlai.cn). The record reflects that these videos were first made available online on I I 
2018, subsequent to the filing of the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Finally, the Petitioner states that he was invited to participate in a live broadcast on the Dudu Doctor 
website in 0201 7, in which he delivered a discussion regarding topics in reproductive health and 
participated in a question and answer session. The Petitioner indicates that the website "establishes a 
new way of connecting users and doctors to provide online medical and health services," and notes 
that 50,000 users attended the live broadcast. Even if we could consider this live broadcast to be 
published material about the Petitioner and his work in major media, we note that the Petitioner's 
participation in the broadcast is not sufficiently documented in the record. The Petitioner provided a 
screenshot from the website (www.duduyisheng.cn) confirming its existence, but the record does not 
contain supporting evidence corroborating the Petitioner's participation in the referenced live 
broadcast or evidence confirming the number of viewers. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we find that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that satisfies 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Director found that this criterion had been satisfied, but did not identify the Petitioner's original 
contributions of major significance or otherwise explain this determination. In order to fulfill the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.4 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated that he meets this criterion, we 
will withdraw the Director's finding. 
The Petitioner claimed in his initial cover letter that he made contributions of major significance 
relating tol I a diagnostic method that ~----------~ I ~ to examine the uterus and fallopian tubes" for the purpose of determining the 
presence of abnormalities and investigating the cause of infertility and miscarriages. He states that 
he has conducted "progressive research which includes a unique contribution to improvements ire=J 
techniques I I and diagnostic effectiveness of thee=]' Further 
the Petitioner states that he has "contributed major insights to the diagnosis and treatment of LJ 
tubal lesions," including participation in a research group that studied! I therapy for severe 
I !adhesions. Specifically, he notes that his research has allowed for early diagnosis of 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
uncommon conditions .__ ____________________ ____., with positive post-
surgery results. He also identified and summarized three of his published articles associated with the 
I I and three articles relating to hisc=J tubal lesion research. The Petitioner maintains 
that his "research on reproductive medicine and minimally invasive surgery have made a significant 
impact in the medical community globally." 
This this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original contributions and explain 
why they are of major significance in the field. 5 Although the Petitioner provided recommendation 
letters from colleagues praising him for his research and clinical skills, the authors do not rovide ~c examples of contributions that are indicative of major ~ignificrce. For exam le 
L__JChairman of the obstetrics and gynecology department a Universit ._____,..-~ Hospital, 
states that the Petitioner "has already had a meaningful impact on the medical profession," indicates 
that his contributions to reproductive medicine research are "important" and "significant," and notes 
that his "clinical research on reproductive medicine and minimally invasive surgery have made an 
important impact in the diagnosis and treatment ofl ~ubal lesions area." 
~----~l an honorary director of the OB/GYN department at the Petitioner's hospital, states that 
the Petitioner's I I infertility research "has promising prospects" and that his "novel 
research on I I therapy for severe I I adhesions is expected to bring revolutionary 
changes for the treatment" of the condition. He describes the Petitioner's research in this area as "an 
incredibly innovative discovery and a real advancement in this scientific field." Finally, another chief 
physician at I I University I I Hospital, I I states that the Petitioner's 
"progressive research includes a unique contribution to improvements i~ I technique I I 
.__ _________ ~ and diagnostic effectiveness of the I [" 1 I farther indicates 
that the Petitioner's research on the diagnosis and treatment of tubal lesions "led to additional 
discoveries which could lead to medical breakthroughs" and that his research has "made a significant 
impact in the medical community globally. 
The letters considered above, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues atl IUniversid 1 
Hospital, primarily contain broad attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's research studies 
without providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the 
above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely 
implemented or relied upon by others in the field, or explain how his research has already "made a 
significant impact in the medical community globally." Simply stating that the work is important or 
that it has potential to majorly impact the field in the future is not sufficient. Without additional detail 
explaining his accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters 
5 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
7 
discussed above do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in his 
field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner later submitted letters from two individuals who are employed outside of the OB/GYN 
~ment atl J Universit~ I Hospital. I O ! an associate professor atc=J 
l__JUniversity's Department of Radiology, states that the Petitioner "made numerous original and 
significant contributions to the field of Reprductive Medicine." I lbriefly summarizes the 
Petitioner's research in the areas of diagnostic techniques, "optimization of the I I 
I O ~ clinical application withl linjection system," and 
ltubal lesions. I I maintains that the Petitioner's work "has influenced the field of 
Reproductive Medicine throughout China," noting that the referenced ,____---------.======. 
technology "is being widely used" at three specific hospitals. He describes it as a new I O I lltool that could be used "across the world." Whilel I makes a specific claim regarding 
tlieniipact of the Petitioner's research, it is unclear how he became aware of the use of the I I I I technology at specific Chinese hospitals and he does not explain the source of his 
information. The record does not, for example, contain corroborating evidence from the hospitals 
which are claimed to have implemented the Petitioner's techniques. Further, although! I 
indicates the potential for the Petitioner's 'I ~echnique to impact the broader field, 
there is insufficient evidence to support a finding that it has already made such an impact. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted two letters from I l an associate physician at I ~ Hospital. I l explains that the Petitioner served as a visiting 
physician to the OB/GYN department at her hospital in November 2017 and states that his guidance 
during that time improved the level of medical services provided by the department. She also 
references three of the Petitioner's published articles, noting that her department "uses these studies 
as guides for our own clinical research and practice." In additionJ I notes that several hospitals 
in China use the~-------,,----------.,,---~technology, and indicates that the Petitioner's 
work "has made a significant impact on the field of gynecology in China and has led other medical 
professionals to new discoveries and major breakthroughs in the reproductive science field." Finally, I I states that the Petitioner has influenced the field "through China and several other countries 
including Germany, Austria, Brazil, Israel, Spain, Turkey and the U.S." Overall, whilel Is 
statements tend to corroborate that the Petitioner has provided guidance regarding diagnostic 
techniques that has reached beyond the boundaries of the specific hospital where he works, they are 
insufficient to support a finding that his research has remarkably influenced or impacted the field of 
reproductive medicine. For example, simply alluding to unidentified "medical breakthroughs" that 
stemmed from the Petitioner's research is not sufficient to establish the major significance of his 
contributions. The expert opinion evidence reviewed in its totality does not does not establish how 
the Petitioner has already made a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than generally 
discussing the prospective, potential impacts of his research. 
In addition to the submitted expert opinion letters, the Petitioner references his overall citation record, 
provides copies of articles that include what he considers to be notable citations to his work, and 
submits rankings of institutions whose researchers cited his published work. 
The Petitioner has provided copies of approximately 16 published journal articles authored by him, 
but has not submitted his complete publication and citation record. He initially identified three articles 
8 
as being specifically relevant to his original contributions in the area ofl !methods: a 
2015 article in the Journal of Practical Obstetrics and Gynecology, a 2014 article published in 
Reproduction & Contraception, and a 2011 article published in Chinese Journal of Family Pla~ 
Similarly, he identified two journal articles in discussing his original contributions relating t<L__j 
tubal lesions research: a 2015 article published in the International Journal of Gynecology and 
Obstetrics, and a 2018 article published in Archives Gynecology and Obstetrics. However, the 
Petitioner did not explain how any of the referenced articles have been deemed to signify an original 
contribution of major significance, and the referenced expert opinion letters did not discuss these 
individual publications and their impact within the field. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner identified his two "top cited" articles 
as a 2010 article published in Journal of Practical Obstetrics and Gynecology and a 2012 article 
published in Chinese Journal of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, 8 but did not explain how the 
noted citation rates demonstrate that his research was considered to be an original scientific 
contribution of major significance. Rather, a review of the submitted articles that reference the 
Petitioner's research does not show the significance of his contributions to the overall field beyond 
the authors who cited to his work. 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an article entitled 
.__ ________ _. published in the Chinese Journal of New Clinical Medicine in 2016, in which 
the authors cited to the article that he claimed is his second most-cited. 9 However, the article does not 
distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from that of the other 27 cited papers or support 
his claim that his research has had a major impact on other researchers. In fact, the authors' citations 
indicate that the Petitioner's research group was one of four groups who have confirmed that a certain 
.__ __________ __. Treatment is effective for treating a condition known as CSP. This 
evidence confirms that others, in the United States and abroad, were able to build upon the Petitioner's 
work and apply it to their own research. But it does not show that the impact of his work on the overall 
field ofreproductive medicine rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance. The 
fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself: 
indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor."10 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a spreadsheet that is intended to rank 2,666 Chinese physicians who 
work at "ranked hospitals" and whose specialty is "reproductive medicine." 11 The Petitioner maintains 
that his work is cited "more than other professionals in his field" as his total number of citations ranks 
8 The Petitioner stated that these articles had 38 and 36 citations, respectively, as of October 2018, but did not provide the 
source of these citation statistics. 
9 Although we discuss a sample article referencing the Petitioner's work, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 The Petitioner indicates that the spreadsheet was compiled by using a listing of physicians located at www.haodfcom 
and citation records found on "the famous Chinese academic search platforms CNKI, Baidu and Google Scholar." 
9 
96th among this group and places him "in the top 3.6%" of the best OB/GYN physicians in China. 
Similarly, the Petitioner claims his average citation rate per published work places him in the top 1.8% 
of reproductive medicine physicians in China. However, figures that summarize citations to the 
Petitioner's entire body of published work do not demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely 
cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major impact in the field of cardiology. 
Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates 
that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's claim on appeal that his work is "cited significantly more often" in 
the categories of "Endometriosis Infertility," "Hysterosaplingography," and "Uterine Artery 
Embolization and Hysteroscopy." Specifically, the Petitioner indicates that "according to Baidu 
Scholar (Chinese Google Scholar)," his articles are ranked second, fourth and first, respectively, 
among published articles in these sub-fields. The Petitioner provided only partially translated 
printouts from xueshu.baidu.com with what appear to be partial search results. As a result we cannot 
determine based on this evidence what search parameter was used, which limits the probative value of 
the submitted information. Even if the citations to individual articles published by the Petitioner were 
sufficiently documented, a relatively high citation rate for a given article, without more, would not 
establish that the published research was deemed an original contribution of major significance in the 
field. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Although the Petitioner consistently claims that his "medical research and advances have greatly 
contributed to the reproductive medical field," these claims are not adequately supported by the 
submitted recommendation letters or citation evidence. Considered together, the evidence consisting of 
the citations to the Petitioner's published findings and the reference letters from his fellow obstetrics and 
gynecology physicians establishes that the Petitioner has been a productive researcher, and that his 
published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research, and perhaps impacted 
local diagnostic practices in certain Chinese hospitals. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made an original contribution of major significance in the field ofreproductive medicine. Therefore, he 
has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
10 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5082984 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 14, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an immunologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as an assistant research scientist in the Department of 
Microbiology and Immunology at the University ofl I ~ 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director provided an "improper evaluation of [his] eligibility." In 
order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
At the outset, the Petitioner asserts that he "holds the position of Associate Editor," "performs 
manuscript review for many of the top scientific journals in his field," and "had completed manuscript 
review at least 70 times already at the time of his filing." In addition, the Petitioner argues that he 
"has authored at least 26 scientific papers documenting his original research in the field of 
immunology." As previously discussed, we have already considered the Petitioner's manuscript 
review and authorship of papers under the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly 
1 See the Petitioner's curriculum vitae and employment verification letter submitted at initial filing. 
2 
articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a 
petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we will generally not consider evidence relating to these 
criteria. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his associate editor position and manuscript 
review experience resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. Moreover, 
publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd 
in part, 596 F.3d 1115.2 
As it relates to the citation of his work, the Director indicated that "the evidence, while demonstrating 
original contributions, did not establish original contributions of major significance in a field whose 
very top scientists (according to Google Scholar) have garnered citations numbered well into the 
thousands." In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field 
is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor 
in a final merits determination if the Director determined he met at least three of the regulatory 
criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. However, the comparison of citations to a particular scientific 
article may be relevant for this criterion in order to establish the overall field's general view of a 
contribution of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that his published articles "had received 467 citations already at 
the time of his filing."3 As it relates to the cumulative citations of his work, this criterion requires the 
Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, 
the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original contributions and explain why they are of major 
significance. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations 
pinpoints to which authored articles or findings represents contributions of major significance in the 
field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record 
rather than identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that 
his three highest cited articles received 41 (Cell Host & Microbe), 39 (Cellular and Molecular 
Immunology), and 38 (Mechanisms of Ageing and Development) citations, respectively.4 Again, this 
criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest 
in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his 
citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 The Petitioner also claims that his published articles have now received 544 citations. However, the Petitioner did not 
provide any supporting documentation to corroborate his assertions. 
4 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. 
Moreover, in response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted an updated Google Scholar list 
reflecting a nominal increase of citations to his individual articles. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how many 
of the additional citations occurred in papers published prior to or at the time of initial filing. See 8 C.F .R. ~ I 03 .2(b )(I). 
3 
example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations 
are indicative that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not 
establish that his citation numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions 
in the field. 5 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted excerpts of articles, including international 
articles, which cited to his work. A review of those articles, though, do not show the significance of 
the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 6 For instance, 
the Petitioner provided a partial article entitled, I I (PLOS Pathogens), in which the authors cited to his 
highest cited article in Cell Host & Microbe. 7 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight 
the Petitioner's written work from the other 58 other cited papers. Moreover, the paper does not 
indicate that the Petitioner's article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant 
in the field. In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations 
rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that "nine of [ the Petitioner's] papers ranked among the top 1 % and 
top 10% most cited across his entire field for their respective publication years already at the time of 
his filing." The record reflects that the Petitioner provided data from Clarivate Analytics regarding 
baseline citation rates and percentiles by year of publication for various research fields, including 
immunology. Further, the Petitioner presents a document that appears to be self-compiled regarding 
his citation count percentiles and paper count percentiles. The Petitioner claims that the data was 
derived from "Microsoft Academic" and compares his research impact to that of other researchers in 
immunology, respiratory distress, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, and infection 
control. 8 
The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically 
establish majorly significant contributions in the field. 9 Once again, the issue for this criterion is 
whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than 
where his citation rates rank among the averages of others in his field. Here, a more appropriate 
analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited 
articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 The Petitioner did not indicate whether he factored in any self-citations in compiling his baseline percentages from 
Clarivate Analytics or "Microsoft Academic." 
9 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, immunology papers published in 2017 receiving only seven 
citations and in 2018 receiving only two citations are in the top 10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with 
such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among 
the top 10% of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
4 
corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that nine of his articles, 
using Clarivate Analytics methodology through citation numbers and percentiles, resulted in original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that his "scientific papers have been published in many of the leading 
journals in his -or any-scientific field." However, the Petitioner has not established that publication 
of his articles in highly ranked or popular journals demonstrates that the field considers his research 
and work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a 
high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an 
author's influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly 
ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has 
not established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution 
of major significance in the field. Again, we considered the Petitioner's publications in journals under 
the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner contends that his "research has been fonded by prestigious institutions, 
including the National Institute of Aging" and his "research has led directly to clinical trials at the 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases." Once again, the issue is not who fonded his 
research or the reputations of entities who conducted clinical trials but whether his research qualifies 
as an original contribution of major significance in the field. Moreover, receiving fonding to conduct 
research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Rather, the Petitioner must 
establish that receiving grants or other similar fonding reflects the major significance of his past work, 
or that his research conducted with the fonding resulted in contributions of major significance. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted two articles and a press release reporting on the results 
of a phase one trial. However, the Petitioner did not show that such limited media coverage indicates 
original contributions of major significance in the field. For example, he did not demonstrate that his 
research and findings resulted in widespread coverage and interest. Instead, the evidence speculates 
on the possibility of having an im act at some oint in the future such as " a n ex erimental treatment 
developed from cattle plasma .__ ________________ -;--------.-----' 
shows broad potential," "[t]he researchers believe they may be able to use.__ _____ ____. cattle to 
rapidly produce I r' "they could conceivably .develop 
antibody treatments," "it could meanl I cattle, and their antibodies, could be used to 
treat other infectious diseases," and "[the] study is noteworthy not only be advancing a potential 
therapeutic for I I but also by showing the potential safety of a novel production platform" 
( emphasis added). While the Petitioner's research may show promise, he did not establish how his 
work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, 
potential impacts. Here, the significant nature of his work has yet to be determined. 10 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that he provided "5 advisory opinions from independent experts who 
have attested to the major significance of his original contributions."11 In general, the letters recount 
10 One article also indicates that "[t]he next step is a larger phase TT study in a population that is infected withl I which 
could demonstrate that the [] treatment is safe in that population and begin to evaluate whether the treatment is effective" 
( emphasis added), suggesting that his research is still ongoing, and the significant impact has not been gauged or measured 
in the field. 
11 The record contains six recommendation letters. 
5 
the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and point to the citations 
of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate 
how his research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the 
field rises to the level of major significance required by this criterion. For instance,.__ _____ ~ 
claimed that the Petitioner's "research contributes to the development of more effective immunization 
protocols by presenting a new method for generative protective immunity against SARS, SARS-like 
viruses, as well as emerging and re-emerging virus infections like the flu or a long period of time."12 
However, I I did not further elaborate and discuss which immunization protocols were 
developed based on the Petitioner's research and how they have impacted SARS, SARS-like viruses, 
and the flu. Moreover,.__ _____ _. asserted that the Petitioner's "research has a broad impact on 
safeguarding patients against deadly viruses." Again,1 I did not explain how the Petitioner's 
research has broadly safeguarded patients and influenced the overall field rather than referencing his 
research in a journal article involving a mouse model. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value.13 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.14 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
12 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
13 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
14 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6891883 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 14, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist in the field of ophthalmology , seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner established 
that she met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, of which 
she must meet at least three. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that her 
entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she meets a third evidentiary criterion and is otherwise eligible 
for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist in the field of ophthalmology. She received her doctor of 
medicine and her master of science in ophthalmology froml I University inl I 
China, in 1993 and 1996, respectively. She complete! post-dlctoral research at the Univysity ol \ I and has held several positions at the Institute of Ophthalmology, 
0 I Hospital, including physician-in-charge, assistant professor, associate professor, and head 
of stem cell research. At the time of filing, she was employed as a research scientist at the University 
of1 I Health Science Center. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging the work of others in her field and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that she has peer-reviewed 
manuscripts for several journals including Current Eye Research, Molecular Vision, Journal of Ocular 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics, and Journal of Neuro-Oncology. 
In addition, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published 
in journals including Molecular Vision, PLoS ONE, Chinese Journal of Ophthalmology, and Acta 
Ophthalmologica. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that 
she also satisfies the requirements of the criterion relating to original contributions of major 
significance in her field. 1 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criterion related 
to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field. See 8 C.F.R. ~ 
204.5(h)(3)(i). On appeaL the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that she does not meet this criterion or 
offer additional arguments. Therefore, we consider this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that 
she satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.2 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Counsel claimed in an introductory letter that the Petitioner has made several original contributions of 
major significance in the field, as evidenced by her published research, citation record, and letters from 
experts in the field. These areas ofresearch were initially summarized as follows:3 (1) she established 
that the acts as an anti-cataract agent; (2) she identified the positive feedback role 
of ·n lens epithelial cells, which has implications for the 
prevention of a condition known as posterior ca sular o acification (PCO , a com lication of cataract 
removal surgery; and (3) she reported that.__ _________________ __, cells I I implanted into the vitreous cavity in mice can reduce the abnormal retinal 
~---;:::======-1=·n:....:t:.::h:..::.e....::,oxygen-induced retinopathy model, suggesting thatl bare helpful for 
the ........,=-------____,,~__.retinal vessels. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of her research through expert opinion 
letters offering praise for her expertise and contributions. However, the authors of the letters do not 
explain why her original research is indicative of major significance. 4 In general, the letters recount 
the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, and generally point to the 
citation of her work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of her work and comment on its 
potential for further research and clinical application, they do not show how her research and findings 
have been considered of major importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level required 
by this criterion. 
Two of the submitted expert opinion letters commented on the Petitioner's studies establishing that 
the I I can ameliorate the rapid progression of I I cataract in 
rats. For exampleJ I professor emerita of biomedical sciences at the University of I I describes cataract as the leading cause of visual impairment, provides statistics 
regarding its prevalence, briefly summarizes the Petitioner's study onl I in rats, 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 On a ea!, counsel identifies a fourth ori inal contribution, notin that the Petitioner has ' 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's research in this area was accepted for publication by The American Journal for 
Pathology inc:=]2018, subsequent to the filing of the petition in August 2017. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
and concludes that the Petitioner's research "has a significant impact on the prevention ofi~---~ I I cataract, as well as to other diseases." This same conclusion is repeated 
verbatim in a letter from f Medical School's I I Research 
Institute. However, neither.__ __ _. nor,__ ___ __, farther elaborated on why the Petitioner's 
research in this area is considered to be a majorly significant contribution in the field by explaining, 
for example, how it has already impacted their shared field or describing specific applications that are 
attributed to the Petitioner's original work, which was published between 1998 and 2003. 
The 1 r fr ml I both address another area of the Petitioner's original research 
notin that she was "the first one to identify that thel I signaling ofl ;I with 
.__ __________ ____, in human and rabbit lens epithelials is mediated b~ .__ _____ __, 
Both authors farther summarize the Petitioner's research findings and reach identical conclusions that 
her study "has si&nificant impact on both clinical and basic research for the prevention of PCO." D I I of[ I Biotechnology also generally referenced the 
Petitioner's "work in lens area," noting that she published multiple papers related to this topic, and 
that "their ilmportrce and applied potentials have drawn great attention" and have been "well accepted 
and cited." states that that "the scientific impact anl potentill practical benefits are huge in [the 
Petitioner's] research study." However, neithd l nor I I sufficiently detailed in 
what ways the Petitioner has advanced the state of research in this research or clinical area or 
elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider field, much less had a "huge 
impact." 
The Petitioner also provided letters that address her research into I I treatments for retinal 
,__ __ _.!disease and injury. I I notes that the Petitioner was "the first one to report that I I 
implanted into the vitreous cavity in mice reduced the abnormal retinal in the 
oxvqen-induced retinopathy model" and also "facilitated the improvement of.__ ____ ........, __ ___,, 
and l I of neurogenic factors so that the loss of photoreceptors was hindered.",__ _ __, 
states that "the excitin results from [the Petitioner's] studies can potentially open the possibility for 
al I therapy o etino athies in patients to increase their vision."5 I lof 
the University o~ l,__ __ ___.Medical Faculty, also discusses this area ofresearc1, noting I 
that the Petitioner's results "may be of profound importance for the therapy of diseases such as 
retinopathy." Likel , lhe states that "thf exciting results from [the Petitioner's] studies can 
potentially open the possibility for al . therapy" of retinal diseases. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from I f of thel I Institute of Ophthalmology. 
He provides a very brief overview of the Petitioner's areas of research interest and describes her as "a 
pioneering researcher working in the area of ophthalmology" who "has made significant impact in this 
area," "has had a significant impact in the international scientific community" and whose research "is 
of great significance." 
sc=J also addresses a second I I study in which they collaborated with the Petitioner, although it was not included 
amon the ori inal contributions hi hli hted in the cover letter accom an in the initial submission. The study, titled 
'-------r--.----------------,----,-------;=====o.......:..:w..::ca::....s .,:;.u::cb:...:..:;lished in Acta 
Ophthalmologica. describes it as providing "a promising.__~..,......... to improve.__ ______ _. in eyes with I I retinopathies" but does not further address how the study was of major significance in the field. 
4 
The letters considered above primarily contain general attestations of the novelty, utility and potential 
impact of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that 
rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 
Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that 
the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the wider field commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits her publication and citation record from Google Scholar and from the 
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) China Integrated Knowledge Resources System, 
which provides comparable information for Chinese language publications that cite to her work. 8 But 
this evidence does not show that the impact of her work on the overall field of ophthalmology or 
related fields rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the 
Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a 
contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
absent evidence that they were of "major significance." We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner 
may present evidence that his articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite 
[her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of [her] contributions to 
the field of endeavor."9 
Here, the Petitioner has not provided evidence that would, for example, allow us to compare her 
citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having 
been of major significance. Further, highly-cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as the number of citations for 
a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the impact or importance of a 
given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has demonstrated that her most cited article is 
.__ _______________________________ __. published in 
Molecular Vision in 2007, which has more than twice as many citations as her next most cited article. 
While the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters that briefly 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
8 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work, and claims 
that her overall citation rate is high, do not demonstrate that any specific work of hers is so widely cited and relied upon 
that it is considered to have made a major impact in her field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others 
in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination. 
9 Id. at 8. 
5 
address her research in this area, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner's research is regarded as an original contribution of major significance that 
has remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Further, the record indicates that the cover letter accompanying the Petitioner's submission included 
excerpts of published articles that cited to her work 10 in support of her claim that other scientists have 
relied on her research for the purpose of explaining their results, designing their studies, or for 
comparison or confirmation purposes. A review of those excerpts, though, does not show the 
significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an excerpt from an article titled '------------~ I I published in Seminars in Cell & Developmental Biology. The author cites to the 
Petitioner's work to su ort her statement that 
...,...._ _________________________ __, .... " and '---------~ 
'---------------------~ " However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other papers cited in the article, of which there appear 
to be at least 129. As a result, the Petitioner has not shown how her published original research has 
made an impact that rises to the level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Counsel also emphasizes that the Petitioner's publications have been cited in several book chapters 
and review articles, noting that "[t]hese books and articles serve to inform the scientific community of 
major breakthroughs in the field, demonstrating the significance of [the Petitioner's outstandin 
research." Counsel's letter included an excerpt from one of these articles, titled '------...,,....-~ 
I. 0 J" published bvl I in Seminars in Cell & 
Developmental Biology. While the inclusion of the Petitioner's research in this and other review 
articles is noted, the record did not provide sufficient support for counsel's suggestion that such 
inclusion is indicative of a "major breakthrough" that has remarkably impacted the field, as such 
articles may cite to dozens or even hundreds of papers. We can cannot determine that every 
publication cited in a review article is indicative of an original contribution of major significance, and 
the evidence does not distinguish the Petitioner's publications from the many others cited. 
On appeal, counsel refers to several of our non-precedent decisions concerning scientific researchers 
who petitioned under this classification. These decisions were not published as precedents and 
therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent 
decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be 
distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the decisions although we will not discuss 
each one separately. Counsel emphasizes that the referenced non-precedent decisions demonstrate 
that we have previously "acknowledged and confirmed the value of the citation record and considered 
the independent citation itself as solid evidence for the influence of the petitioner's work." However, 
the non-precedent decisions also highlight the fact that we placed significant weight on the statements 
of experts who clearly described how the petitioners' scientific contributions were both original and 
10 It appears based on the limited excerpts provided that all of the excerpted articles cited her 2006 article titled ~ 
' 
published in Molecular Vision. On appeal, the Petitioner submits partial copies of several articles that cite this a11icle and 
other articles that she co-authored. 
6 
of major significance in their field. The expert opinion letters submitted in this matter did not contain 
sufficient probative analysis regarding the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
Considered together, the evidence -consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, 
the Petitioner's citation history, and the reference letters from experts in her field -establishes that she 
is an accomplished scientist. The Petitioner has been productive as a researcher and has published 
original research, producing data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. 
However, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a contribution of major 
significance in the field of ophthalmological research. Therefore, she has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, as the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act, we need not determine whether her "entry to the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States" under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) and will not address the Directors' 
separate finding with respect to that issue. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5712849 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 14, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive badminton player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3), which requires documentation of a one-time achievement, or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten initial regulatory criteria. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to 
reopen and reconsider. The Director dismissed the motion concluding that it did not meet the 
requirements of either a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we emphasize that the Petitioner did not appeal the denial order itself, but 
rather the Director's subsequent finding that its combined motion did not meet the requirements of a 
motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. Therefore, the merits of the denial decision, and of the 
underlying petition, are not before us. Rather, we must determine whether the Director properly found 
that the Petitioner's combined motion did not meet applicable requirements of a motion to reopen or 
a motion to reconsider. A motion that does not meet applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported 
by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
With respect to the motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted seven exhibits, accompanied by a ten­
page brief which discussed the relevance of new evidence that was being submitted in support of the 
motion. In dismissing the motion, the Director stated "[t]he motion to reopen is not accompanied by 
new facts," without addressing the Petitioner's evidence or brief or explaining why its submission was 
insufficient to meet the requirements of a motion to reopen. Accordingly, we find that the Director 
did not properly adjudicate the motion to reopen. 
With respect to the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's detailed brief alleged several errors in the 
Director's application of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to the facts presented and in 
the Director's interpretation of the plain language of those criteria. The Director did not address these 
arguments, and instead summarily concluded that the motion did not "establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision." An officer must fully 
explain the reasons for denial in order to allow the petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision 
and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see 
also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
Therefore, because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen 
or motion to reconsider, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to consider the Petitioner's 
arguments in that motion. The Director must at least address the Petitioner's claims, legal arguments, 
and any new facts, and explain why they are insufficient to overcome the denial of the petition. 
II. CONCLUSION 
As the Director's decision did not address the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen or motion to 
reconsider, we will remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5301337 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 15, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who asserts to be a "sponsor-investigator," seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
which require documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . We affirmed the Director's decision, 
and subsequently reaffirmed our findings in two motion decisions between 2013 and 2018. 1 
The matter is now before us for the third time on a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 2 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the combined motions to 
reconsider and reopen. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner established that he met only one criterion, scholarly articles under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of H-X-, ID# 1925252 (AAO Jan. 29, 2019). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our most recent decision denying the Petitioner's second motion to reconsider, we found that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that we incorrectly applied pertinent law or agency policy in our 
previous decision, denying the Petitioner's first motion to reconsider and reopen, based on the 
evidence in the record at the time. Moreover, we indicated that the Petitioner cited to regulations 
relating to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which were not dispositive to the initial 
evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Furthermore, although challenged by the 
Petitioner, we explained the Director's legal authority to revoke approvals of petitions. 
As it relates to his most prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner presented several pages from the 
Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) Manual, highlighting the occupational description for 
medical scientists, except epidemiologists, under SOC code 19-1042, and he resubmitted other 
material previously evaluated and discussed in the record. We determined that the Petitioner did not 
explain how the information from the SOC Manual related to or established his claimed eligibility for 
the membership criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner makes 
the same, previous arguments without demonstrating how we improperly adjudicated his second 
motion as a matter of law or policy. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred 
as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to 
reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion 
to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
As the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we incorrectly denied his most recent motion, he did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny his motion 
to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reopen must state 
new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The regulation at 8 
2 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board of 
Immigration Appeals' (the Board) definition of"new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2( c)(l) (stating that a motion 
to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been 
discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the 
evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret 
"new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been 
previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously 
stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." 
In the current motion, the Petitioner offers previously submitted documentation. As this evidence does 
not qualify as "new" and we already evaluated it in earlier proceedings, we will not further consider it 
in this proceeding. The Petitioner did offer additional FDA regulations and a final rule from the 
Department of Health and Human Services relating to a responsible party for a clinical trial. However, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the regulations and final rule show his eligibility for any additional 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we will deny his motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly denied his most recent motions based on the record 
before us, nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate that he has fulfilled at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5058500 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an event manager for large scale and global events, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3), which requires 
documentation of a one-time achievement, or evidence that meets at least three of the ten initial 
regulatory criteria. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Director dismissed the motion concluding that it did not meet the requirements of either a motion 
to reopen or motion to reconsider. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. ANALYSIS 
Although the Petitioner's appellate brief primarily addresses the Director's initial denial decision, we 
emphasize that the Petitioner did not appeal the denial order itself, but rather the Director's subsequent 
finding that its combined motion did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or motion to 
reconsider. Therefore, the merits of the denial decision, and of the underlying petition, are not before us. 
Rather, the only issue before us is whether the Director properly found that the Petitioner's combined 
motion did not meet applicable requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. A motion 
that does not meet applicable requirements must be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported 
by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Although the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider, the decision dismissing the motion did not cite to the regulatory requirements for filing 
a motion to reopen. The Director, while acknowledging that the Petitioner submitted evidence in 
support of the motion, noted that such evidence "had previously been submitted or was previously 
available at the time of the decision but was not submitted." Therefore, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner "failed to submit new facts." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it 
mirror the Board of Immigration Appeals' ( the Board) definition of "new" at 8 C .F .R. § 1003 .2( c )( 1) 
(stating that a motion to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could 
not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do 
not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. Here, 
it appears that the Director applied the Board's definition of"new" to the Petitioner's motion to reopen. 
As a result, the Director's decision did not sufficiently address the newly submitted facts or evidence 
or explain why the requirements for a motion to reopen were not met. Therefore, we find that the 
Director did not properly adjudicate the motion to reopen. 
With respect to the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner's brief alleged several errors in the Director's 
application of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to the facts presented and in the 
Director's interpretation of the plain language of those criteria. The decision does not address these 
arguments, and instead summarily concludes that "the motion to reconsider does not establish that the 
requirements for filing a motion to reconsider have been met." An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denial in order to allow the petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow 
us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of 
M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Because the Director has not yet addressed the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen or motion 
to reconsider, the record of proceeding is not ripe for us to consider the Petitioner's arguments in that 
motion. The Director must at least address the Petitioner's claims, legal arguments, and any new facts, 
and explain why they are insufficient to overcome the denial of the petition. 
II. CONCLUSION 
As the Director's decision did not adequately address the merits of the Petitioner's motion to reopen 
or motion to reconsider, we will remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5962784 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research chemist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. We 
decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his bachelor's degree at the University ofl [ and his doctorate at 
the University o~ I, where he was working as a postdoctoral research~ 
time he filed the petition. He later began working as a research associate at the University ofl____J I I The record does not reveal his current employment. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary 
criteria: the fourth, relating to judging the work of others, and the sixth, relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the third criterion, relating to 
published material about the alien, and the fifth, relating to original contributions of major 
significance. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has also 
satisfied the fifth criterion, relating to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner states that "two of his notable discoveries" are "a new method of decontaminating! I I in water" and "a ~ cluster having a guest-host relationship," the latter of which~"h_a_s~ 
1 In September 2018, the Petitioner submitted printouts fron:C7's website, identifying him as a research associate there. 
The web addresses of the submitted printouts are http:I I and https:/.__ _____ __, 
As of December 2019, those pages are no longer available, indicating that the Petitioner left 
that institution. 
2 
significant medical, commercial, and environmental applications." Professors fromD and D 
provided technical details about the nature of the Petitioner's contributions to those discoveries, and 
one of the scholarly articles arising from his research at D has been heavily cited, indicating 
widespread attention from others in the field. The record sufficiently establishes the nature and 
~cance of contributions that the Petitioner made to research connected to his doctoral research at 
L_J and we withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
During this proceeding, the Petitioner has noted the citation of his published work. The Petitioner's 
research while he was a doctoral student at~ led to a heavily-cited article published in the Journal of 
the American Chemical Society (JACS) in 2011. One such article, however, does not establish a pattern 
of producing heavily-cited research consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. At 
the time of filing, no other article by the Petitioner had accumulated more than 14 citations. The Petitioner 
contends that even the less-cited articles have been "cited at a rate far exceeding the average." The 
classification requires an individual to be at the very top of the field, which is a much higher threshold 
than "exceeding the average." 
The Petitioner states that his "major scientific contributions have provoked widespread commentary," but 
the Petitioner identifies only one source of this claimed commentary. Shortly after the Petitioner's most­
cited article appeared in JA CS, it was "the subject of a feature article within the newsletter of the American 
Chemical Society, Chemical & Engineering News (C&EN)." 
The Director noted that the Petitioner's name does not appear in the C&EN article, and therefore that 
article cannot contribute to the Petitioner's acclaim in the field. Furthermore, as the Petitioner has 
acknowledged, the American Chemical Society (ACS) publishes both the JACS and C&EN. Therefore, 
the C&EN article essentially amounts to a promotional press release, by which the ACS informed ACS 
members of a new article in an ACS journal. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that C&EN "is not 
marketing material," but he has not shown that his 2011 JA CS article attracted any media attention beyond 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual ( AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
its own publisher (the ACS). A single ten-sentence article does not support the Petitioner's contention 
that "his work has been discussed in detail by major trade publications." 
The Petitioner's earlier work aO led to a patent application, filed in 2011 and approved in 2013. The 
Petitioner is the third of three named co-authors of that application. The patent concerned a B I I compound" that could be used to removel I contaminants, for example i I I. The record attests more to the potential of this work than to its existing, demonstrated impact. 
A patent attests to an invention's originality, but not to its impact, importance, or recognition. 
Asked to establish the extent, if any, to which mining companies have actuall~ been usinJ. the patented 
technology, the Petitioner showed that D licensed the patent to I , which then 
assigned the license to I I an environmental remediation company. The Petitioner asserts 
that this license shows that the "patent is being used by one of the world's leading sustainable technologies 
companies to remediatel I" 
The record indicates that I I and I I did not specifically seek to license the 
patent to which the Petitioner contributed. Rather, that license fell under a larger agreement that had been 
in place since 2006, before the Petitioner worked on the project. An article published in Johnson Matthey 
Technology Review referred to the Petitioner's patent and stated: I I 
'---------------~----------'" This article was published in 2015, 
several years after the Petitioner left The article has no author credit, but it begins with biographical 
information about a D professor and ends with an ackno~ent of ~aduate student's "work 
on this project," suggesting that the article originated fromL_J The record shows thatl I 
has sought to commercialize several years of research results from D including but not limited to the 
Petitioner's contributions to that research. The record does not show that the Petitioner's involvement in 
research atO has resulted in sustained national or international acclaim, or placed him at the top of his 
field. Rather, the Petitioner appears to have been one of many productive contributors to an ongoing 
research program that predated his work atO and continued after he left that institution. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director should have given more weight to letters from various individuals 
in the Petitioner's field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use 
as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources 
submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 
1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a 
foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts supporting the petition is not 
presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. His selection of individuals who are familiar with his work 
does not imply that his work is known widely enough to be consistent with national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has not shown that these individuals, most of whom have personally 
supervised the Petitioner's research, represent a consensus or representative cross-section of his field. 
Also, the letters focused on the significance of P.articular contributions. For example, an associate 
professor au !Technological University,! I discussed the Petitioner's patent and a 
more recent article regarding l f The Petitioner's Ph.D. thesis advisor at I lstated that the Petitioner's technical expertise "gives him a singular value to the field that few 
other scientists can replicate." These individuals offered the subjective assessment that the Petitioner's 
discoveries are of the highest caliber, but this is not tantamount to sustained national or international 
4 
acclaim at the very top of the field. Likewise, the Petitioner's peer review work is indicative of subject 
matter expertise rather than sustained national or international acclaim. His Ph.D. thesis advisor is 
also the editor-in-chief of one of the journals for which he has peer-reviewed manuscripts. 
The submitted evidence shows that the Petitioner's graduate study and postdoctoral training have been 
productive, and have resulted in some important findings, but the Petitioner has not established that 
he has earned sustained national or international acclaim, or that he has reached the very top of his 
field. 
Because the Petitioner has not reached the threshold requirement of sustained acclaim, we need not 
address the Director's secondary finding substantial prospective benefit to the United States. We 
therefore reserve that issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the Petitioner has shown that, during his training, he belonged to research teams performing 
important work, but he has not established that he set the direction for that work or made findings that 
the teams would not have made without him. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4992300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[n] carpet weaving artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record established 
that the Petitioner had met one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least 
three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been a professional carpet weaver in the field of Uzbek 
traditional carpet weaving since 2008. She seeks to continue her work in the field of Uzbek traditional 
carpet weaving in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
relating to the artistic display of her work. The record reflects that the Petitioner has displayed her 
rugs at several artistic exhibitions such as the 20171 I inl I New 
Mexico and the 20171 I Central Asia in I We therefore agree with the Director that 
she meets this criterion. The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the criteria 
pertaining to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meet these additional criteria and provides additional 
evidence. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies three of the criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion through her receipt of the "international" 2016 I I Prize for the Asia-Pacific region. In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this 
criterion, the Director noted that the record includes a copy of the award, but the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how the award "constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence in the field of carpet weaving." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the "extensive additional information" provided in her response 
to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) established that this award is internationally recognized 
for excellence in her field of endeavor. She submits a document from thel I 
2 
titled "Complete 2016 Application Kit for theOAward of Excellence for Handicrafts" 1 containing 
the criteria for the award. She also rovides a letter of recommendation from a 
cultural expert at.__ __________________________ .,....in '----~ 
in which he states, "this award constitutes an internationally recognized award in the field of folk 
handicraft," in the case of the Petitioner of "carpet weaving." 
Here the evidence in the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Specifically, the I !correspondence and website printouts provided with her RFE response 
generally describe the organization, its function, and the guidelines for membership, but do not 
mention the award itself In addition, these documents do not include information such as the award 
criterion, its national or international significance, or number of recipients, which might establish that 
the award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field, as required. 
We note that the award's application kit submitted by the Petitioner on appeal identifies four criteria 
for the receipt of this award. One of these requires that the recipient's product demonstrate "excellence 
and standard-setting quality in craftsmanship" as determined by "the use of high quality materials, a 
high standard of technique and special attention to manufacturing and finishing details." While this 
is sufficient to establish that the award is granted for excellence in the Petitioner's fitµd.ilf,endeavor, 
the document lacks information, such as the number of these awards granted by thel__J to carpet 
weavers and other artisans, which might show the award to be nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 2 
The Petitioner also provides I h letter of recommendation containing language mirroring 
both the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h) and the award application materials. However, other than 
naming himself and another expert as the judges involved in the issuance of this award, his letter does 
not provide additional information about the award' s recognition. Therefore,! ts conclusory 
statement is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 1756, Inc. v. United 
States Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion thn:ugh her mejhership inl JI the Uzbek 
Association of Artisans, Craftsmen, and Folk Artists I . The record includes three letters 
from.__ ______ ___,, I Is chief executive officer (CEO) and one froml I 
1 The A lication Kit ex lains that this c=]award was established in 2001 by the.__ ___________ ~ 
~--...----=----.----"' and that 'c=J since 2014 is continuing the programme under the patronage of 
~-~within Asia Pacific Region." 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions: 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
3 
chairman of the I !Regional Department ofl I in support of the Petitioner's claim. 
Both I _ and .... l _____ __.I state that the Petitioner is a "current and foll member of the 
Association" and that it "requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by nationally 
or internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art," in the Petitioner's case, 
"traditional Uzbek carpet weaving." In another letter,I I indicates"[ a ]s per the Charter 
of I I Association, admission to the Association is allowed dependent on the suggestion of 
Art Experts Council," but the Petitioner does not provide the association's charter or other evidence 
that might corroborate this statement or otherwise provide information on the Art Experts Council. 
Thus, while the letters froml I and I I contain language that mirrors the 
regulation, neither those authors nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that 
supports the claim that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Without additional evidence that accurately and 
credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection process, conclusory 
statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 17 5 6, Inc. v. 
United States Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
~e in addition that I l's letter provides that~-------~ andD 
L___J whom he identifies as experts in the field and members of the association's aforementioned 
"Art Experts Council," recommended the Petitioner's membership. However, he does not explain 
the basis of his knowledge, and neither he nor the Petitioner have offered sufficient evidence in support 
of this statement or otherwise demonstrating that members of the Art Experts Council are recognized 
as national or international experts in the field of carpet weaving. As we note above, conclusory 
statements are not sufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner meets this criterion, absent additional 
evidence. 
For these reasons, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes a properly translated article about the Petitioner titled '.__ ________ ___. 
published in Bukhoroi Oqshomi, including the title, date, and author as well as a letter describing the 
article and confirming its publication in Number 47(11125). However, the Petitioner does not provide 
print circulation statistics or other appropriate evidence for Bukhoroi Oqshomi establishing that its 
circulation is high relative to that of other newspapers, or otherwise demonstrating that the newspaper 
rises to the level of major media. 3 She therefore has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 7 (noting that evidence of published material about the alien 
in major media should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics.). 
4 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has she made original contributions but that they has been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Here the Petitioner maintains that her "mastery of Uzbek carpet weaving techniques" and her 
adaptation of them "to contemporary materials and tastes" constitute an original contribution to the 
field. She argues farther that her skills have been "recognized as a contribution of ma·or si nificance 
to the field by leading experts in this field." She submits an additional letter fro.r=m~------r--------
as well as recommendation letters from .__ _______ _.ofL...-__ ,---..._-------;and 
[ I of the Academy of Arts of Uzbekistan (AAU), and.__ ______ ___. and 7 I of the International Council of Museums (ICOM). 5 
While these letters indicate that the Petitioner is an expert carpet weaver, they do not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has made original contributions in the field, as she asserts. Specifically, the 
correspondence does not identify her original contributions in the field of carpet weaving or provide 
specific examples of how her work has been of major significance. 6 For example,! I 
states, "[the Petitioner] is an accomplished carpet weaver who has made a contribution of major 
significance in this field," but does not offer specific examples.I I similarly notes, "[the 
Petitioner] is exceptionally capable" and that the "uncommon nature of [the Petitioner's] work 
separates her from other skilled workers," but does not identify any original contributions made by the 
Petitioner in her field of endeavor. FinallyJ I notes that during the Petitioner's patcipatiln 
at an unidentified art show she "showed her ability of using appropriate patterns in weavin ." 
Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported 
assertions do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion. 7 The record lacks other evidence corroborating the Petitioner's assertions 
that her mastery and adaptation of Uzbek carpet weaving techniques are original contributions or that 
these techniques are of major significance in the field of carpet weaving. She therefore has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the three criteria relating to awards, 
published material, or membership. Although on appeal the Petitioner also claims that she meets the 
criteria related to scholarly articles, we need not reach this issue. We reserve it as the Petitioner cannot 
meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
41 _ Is letter indicates that he isl I of this council. .---------, I l 
5 Ibe record also includes letters Jom I I providing references for I I llnd._ ___ _,, and from I of the AAU, describing this entity. We have reviewed this correspondence but do not 
discuss it here. 
6 While we discuss only a sampling of this correspondence here, we have reviewed all of the letters in their entirety. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5303295 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner appealed the matter to us, and 
we dismissed the appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen the matter with us, which we 
then denied. 
On second motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that she meets the two 
additional criteria claimed in her initial motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor.1 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
In her decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only one of the requisite three criteria, 
regarding display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, we determined that the 
Petitioner met an additional criterion related to playing a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation, but did not establish that she met at least three of the initial criteria, 
as required. 2 The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen with us, providing new evidence and 
claiming to meet two additional criteria for published material and for high salary. We subsequently 
dismissed this motion, determining that the evidence did not demonstrate her eligibility for the two 
additional criteria. 3 
The Petitioner now submits a second motion to reopen, provides new evidence, and asserts that these 
materials demonstrate that she meets the criteria claimed in her first motion. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the new evidence submitted in 
support of the instant motion to reopen does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied two additional 
criteria, as claimed. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
We previously determined on motion that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence sufficient to 
establish that she met the published material criterion. In the instant motion, she again provides two 
articles published in the magazine domus design. 4 The first, published inl I 2006, has already 
1 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination): 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility. both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 See Matter of 0-S-, ID# 129424 (AAO Jul. 5, 2018). 
3 See Matter ofO-S-, ID# 200787 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019). 
4 We note that the Petitioner also includes printouts from herO online shop as well as other photographs of her work. 
which we have reviewed, but do not discuss here. 
2 
been submitted, reviewed, and considered; accordingly, we will not address it in this proceeding. The 
second, published in~ 2007, while previously submitted, lacked a complete translation. 5 On 
second motion, the Petitioner provides this article, which credits her with "photographs in the interior," 
and its complete translation. She asserts that it features her work, and directs our attention to a page 
in which the editor references ~-------------~' However, the article is about the 
apartment and its design, not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner submits new documentation to demonstrate that domus design qualifies as major 
medium. Specifically she includes online circulation statistics for burdastyle.ua, a printout from 
www.burda.ua describing domus design, and circulation statistics for other Ukrainian magazines "on 
architecture and design." She also submits articles identifying domus design as one of "the best" 
magazines for design and decor in Ukraine and discussing the magazine's role in "major award 
ceremonies, fashion show events, furniture exhibits, and more." 
In order to establish that a publication is major media, evidence should show that its online or print 
circulation is high relative to that of other publications. 6 While the Petitioner provides the online 
circulation statistics for burdastyle.ua, the "digital segment" for Burda Ukraine, 7 she does not submit 
evidence demonstrating how these statistics are reflective of domus design's on-line circulation. The 
additional media articles, while reflecting the publication's participation and sponsorship of various 
events, similarly lack evidence establishing its circulation. The newly submitted evidence is therefore 
not sufficient to establish the circulation, either on-line or in print, of domus design. Accordingly, 
while the Petitioner submits online circulation statistics for comparable magazines, she has not 
established that domus design's circulation is high relative to these magazines or otherwise established 
that it is a major medium. 
In addition to the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner provides a printout from joumals.ua titled 
"Domus Design Magazine Online" describing the magazine and identifying the magazine's 
"stakeholders" as architects, who "make up about 80% of Domus Design online subscribers." As 
such, this evidence is sufficient to support a finding that domus design is a professional or trade 
publication. However, in order to satisfy this criterion, an article published in a professional or major 
trade publication must also be about the petitioner and related to their work. As we note above, the 
record does not support such a finding. 
For the foregoing reasons, the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner does not establish her 
eligibility for the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
5 As we noted in our February 2019 decision, the Petitioner provided this article previously but did not include a complete 
translation. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 The aforementioned printout from http://www.burda.ua describes the magazine and the company Burda Ukraine. This 
document states the "Digital segment in Burda Ukraine" is represented by six websites, one of which is burdastyle.ua, but 
does not discuss the relationship between domus design and burdastyle.ua. 
3 
We also concluded in our prior decision that the Petitioner did not establish that she commanded a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field, as 
required to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We noted that while she provided an 
interior design proposal, and copy of a 2017 IRS Form 1099 as evidence of a $9,800 payment for the 
project, she did not include evidence demonstrating how this remuneration compared with that of other 
interior designers. 
On second motion, the Petitioner resubmits the Form 1099 and "Bedroom Design Concept" proposal 
document. She also provides new evidence in order to demonstrate that her remuneration for this 
project is "significantly high in relation to others paid in the field." Specifically, she submits the 
following documents related to fashion designers and photographers: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' 
(BLS) California occupational employment and wage estimates, entries from the BLS Occupational 
Outlook Handbook, and average salary reports from Payscale. The Petitioner also provides a printout 
of job postings from www.indeed.com and upwork.com for these occupations. However, she does not 
submit evidence of past remuneration for work in these fields; rather, as we noted in our previous 
decision, the submitted documentation relates to her work as an interior designer. Evidence 
establishing remuneration in the fields of fashion design and photography is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that she has commanded significantly high remuneration for her work in the field of 
interior design. The new evidence on motion, therefore, does not show that she meets the criterion for 
high salary or remuneration pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The new evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion is not sufficient to demonstrate that she has 
fulfilled at least three of the initial evidentiary requirements. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The motion will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
4 
ORDER: The motion is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6043242 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant pathology researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research associate at the University of .__ _____ ___.whose recent work has 
focused on how lants fi ht viruses and other pathogens. Previously, he earned his master's degree at 
'---------------=====-=---- and his doctorate at I I 
The Petitioner remained at for three more years as a postdoctoral research associate. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary 
criteria: 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
2 
The Petitioner claimed to have met another three criteria, which the Director did not grant: 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's findings regarding the three additional 
criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we will not disturb the Director's findings regarding 
the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others, and his authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field. We will withdraw the Director's findings that the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance and has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner described his most significant findings in the field of plant pathology, concerning the 
effects ofl L commercially sold under the name j t: 
He is credited with some of the most major (first in the world) discoveries in this field, 
such as his discovery that two different plant viruses,~---------~ and I l work together to cause ... much more damage than 
either disease could result in on its own. He was the first person in the world to elucidate 
that 1 I a c~l c=l...2f plant defense, also I I defense against 
tospoviruses such as L_J and L_J. Additionally, he was the first to uncover the 
3 
mechanism by which ~I -~I genes are downregulated by~I --~I treatment, thus 
reducing viral symptoms. 
The Petitioner also stated: 
He was the first one to demonstrate the ~I ....,,0,,....-----~I mechanism of extracellular 
,'----------,.---------' and showed a connection between damage signals 
.......,...~---------'--"',._,d major defense hormones in plants. In addition, he showed that 
the induced defense targets major plant pathogens such as bacteria and ~-----~ fungi. 
The Petitioner asserted that his "research has literally saved farmers millions of dollars in lost crops," and 
has "had a noticeable effect on the onion production in some areas." However, the Petitioner did not 
submit documentary evidence of this effect, nor does the Petitioner explain how he has verifiable 
knowledge of this effect in the absence of such evidence. Letters in the record attest only to the potential 
impact of the Petitioner's work, and do not support the claim that the Petitioner's "research has literally 
saved farmers millions of dollars in lost crops." 
Furthermore, whatever the commercial impact ofl I the record shows that the product was already 
used on onion crops before the Petitioner published his findings. The Petitioner's inquiry intoc:=J s 
mechanism of action adds to lthe greral body of knowledge, but the Petitioner has not shown that this 
inquiry, rather than the use of in general, has had major significance in agriculture (for example, by 
significantly changing the way onion farmers usd O J The record does not appear to contain any 
first-hand documentation from onion growers or any representative body thereof 
The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from mentors, lcolleagys, and others, attesting to the 
scientific significance of his work. For example, a professor at University contended that the 
Petitioner's "research has nationwide impact" because he "has provided a novel approach that can reduce 
crop loss due to pathogen attacks." A technical manager at I I Crop Production, which 
manufactures! I states that the Petitioner and his collaborators made "a critical research finding as 
it was the firs~repol of molecular functioning of any plantl land provided a scientific evidence of 
mechanism o in Plants." 
The Director acknowledged the submitted letters, but found that "the submission of solicited letters 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility." The Director cited case law indicating 
that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, consider advisory 
opinions as expert testimony, but that USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding eligibility. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
The Petitioner argues that the Director's "failure to consider expert testimony constitutes a violation of 
due process." The Director, however, did not fail to consider the submitted letters. The Director did 
consider them, and some of the Director's favorable findings (regarding, for instance, the significance of 
the Petitioner's contributions) relied significantly on those letters. 
The Director granted some weight to the letters, but found them insufficient to establish eligibility. 
"Expert testimony" does not intrinsically compel approval of the petition. Letters of this kind can help to 
4 
explain the nature of the Petitioner's contributions, but should be supported with corroborating 
documentary evidence to establish the major significance of those contributions. The record does not 
show that the writers' views represent the consensus within that field. Rather, the writers represent 
individuals whom the Petitioner selected, and who accepted the Petitioner's solicitation to provide letters. 
Beyond the letters discussed above, the Petitioner asserts that the citation of his published work 
demonstrates its impact on the field. At the time of filing, the Petitioner had published 12 scholarly 
articles, which had accumulated a total of 70 citations. One article amassed 38 citations over eight years; 
all the others had 10 or fewer. The Petitioner asserts that his citation total is "about 2.2 7 times the average 
number of citations" for plant science publications in the same date range. However, we note that 
evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work, and claims that his 
overall citation rate is high, do not demonstrate that any specific contribution of his is so widely cited and 
relied upon that it is considered to have made a major impact in his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record 
shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. Further, an above-average citation 
rate does not intrinsically indicate major significance in the field. The Petitioner did not show that the 
citations to his publications regarding a particular contribution demonstrate a level of impact 
commensurate with major significance. 
The Petitioner's work clearly has shed light on issues of interest in plant pathology, but the record lacks 
sufficient objective evidence to show that the Petitioner has made contributions of major significance in 
his field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
A USCIS policy memorandum includes the following guidance: 
If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is ( or was) a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, 
leading. 
If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the alien's performance in 
the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather 
the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical. 
[T]he relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself 
a determining factor. Rather, the organization or establishment must be recognized as 
having a distinguished reputation. Webster's online dictionary defines distinguished as 
1: marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence ... and 2: befitting an eminent 
person. 
5 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 
1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update 
ADJ 1-14, 10-11 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
The Petitioner states that he "has been a major player at every institution he has worked at. He has 
made major discoveries which brought prestige to his universities, and perhaps even more importantly, 
his data was used to secure major grants for millions of dollars." 
The Petitioner arguably performed in critical roles in some of the individual laboratories where he has 
studied and trained, but the Petitioner has not established that those laboratories are organizations or 
establishments with distinguished reputations in their own right, or that the Petitioner's role was 
critical not only to the laboratories, but to each university as a whole. 
The Petitioner asserts that it is "false" to contend "that the petitioner must show that his work has 
benefited the establishment as a whole, as opposed to a department or laboratory within the 
organization." The regulation, however, requires "a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation"; the Petitioner seeks to substitute a much lower 
standard, regarding a leading or critical role for subdivisions within such organizations. 
Furthermore, not every university has a distinguished reputation. The term "distinguished" necessarily 
implies a comparison, and no institution is distin~ished simp~irtue of what type of institution it is. 
The Petitioner did not objectively demonstrate that! landL__J or the individual laboratories where 
the Petitioner studied and trained, have distinguished reputations. 
The professor who supervises the Petitioner atD states: "For Biology and Biochemistry, theDis 
currently ranked at # 11 in the World by the US News ranking." The Petitioner has not established that 
the laboratory where he works has a distinguished reputation on its own, or that he has played a leading 
or critical role forO's Biology Department as a whole. 
Regarding the Petitioner's emphasis on grant funding, academic research often relies on such funding, 
but it does not follow that every graduate student or postdoctoral research associate who participates 
in grant-funded research is, therefore, playing a critical role for the institution receiving that funding. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided no evidence to show how his fund-generating activities compare 
with those of others at the same institutions. Grant application documents in the record do not show 
that the approvals or amounts were contingent on the Petitioner's involvement. An application filed 
byD in 2015 does not list the Petitioner among the personnel who would participate in the funded 
research. 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, 
we need not evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Some of the Petitioner's 
activities, such as writing and peer-reviewing scholarly articles, satisfy the letter of the criteria but do 
not distinguish the Petitioner from a great many others in his field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 16, 2024 In Re: 28895668 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a designer of fashion and theater costumes for athletes and performers, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she met at least three of the regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), to be 
classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is 
now before us on a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement explaining her personal circumstances, why she was 
unable to access and provide certain documentation, and reiterating why she believes that she qualifies 
as individual of extraordinary ability. She also asserts that our prior decision failed to consider new 
evidence submitted with her appeal, which was an error under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l) and the Form 
I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion's instructions. 1 She requests reopening of her prior appeal, 
1 With regards to her assertion that we erred by failing to consider the new evidence she submitted with her appeal, we 
note that the Petitioner filed a motion to reopen. Regardless, she has not explained why this was an error. Our prior 
decision declined to consider the new evidence because the Petitioner had been put on notice of the deficiencies in her 
stating "I agree with the shortcomings of my petition, ... but I ask you to consider my appeal ... de 
novo ...." She farther contends that it was error not to consider her evidence as comparable evidence 
within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) and claims, for the first time, that she meets the 
commercial success criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). She asks for compassion given her 
advanced age and because, as a Russian citizen, she is restricted from traveling to many countries. 
As an initial matter, although a petitioner may supplement previous eligibility assertions, it should not 
raise previously unclaimed eligibility criteria for the first time on motion. See Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 537 (BIA 
1988). Therefore, we will not consider the Petitioner's new claims regarding the commercial success 
criterion or comparable evidence. 2 
In addition to her statement, she rovides an email dated November 2020 from ~I-----~ 
General Secretary of the , and a portion of an 
article published in .______ __.marzinej As explained in our prior decision, the record does not 
contain evidence that membership in requires outstanding achievements of their members. 
While we acknowledge the submission of the email, we note that only a portion of the Petitioner's 
request is included. Regardless the response does not provide any information regarding the 
membership requirements of Dor establish that they require outstanding achievements of their 
members. As such, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
With respect to the article published in I I although she has established that it is about 
her, it does not contain evidence to demonstrate that it is a professional or major trade publication, or 
other major media as required by the criterion found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, 
the Petitioner has not established eligibility. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
evidence and had been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency. Citing to precedent caselaw, we explained that 
because the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE) "spelled out the deficiencies in the evidence initially 
submitted and listed additional evidence which could be submitted to address those deficiencies, and the Petitioner 
responded with additional evidence," we would not consider the evidence submitted on appeal. The Petitioner's motion 
fails to explain how our analysis was made in error. 
2 As to the Petitioner's statements regarding comparable evidence, we agree that we may consider comparable evidence if 
we determine that the listed criteria do not readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2, https://www.policymanual.com. However, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish not only that the criterion 
is not readily applicable to her occupation, but also that the submitted evidence is comparable to that criterion. Id. She has 
not done so here. 
2 MATTER OF L-W-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non~Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 17, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)( I )(A), 8 U.S.C. § I I 53(b)(I )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal; the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief arguing that she meets at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences. arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have beei1 recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the_ United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implem~nting regulation 
.
Matter of L-W-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
rec1uirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
· national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very. top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v . Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine ;;~ach piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Maller o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANAL YSJS 
The Petitioner indicates that she is currently employed as a senior correspondent for 
Because she has not indicated or established that she 
has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory cri_teria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Petitioner only fulfilled one of the initial evidentiary criteria, original contributions of major 
significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four 
additional criteria, discussed . below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria. · 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or inlernationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor . 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(i). 
I 
The Petitioner contends that she meets this criterion based on her receiving a "1996 
A ward" from the and an 
2 
.
Maller <?[ L-W-. 
A ward" from the .1 In regards to 
the "1996 Award," the Petitioner submitted a letter from protessor at 
, who claimed that the award "is [a] national l~vel award and 
the most significant award in news field." also asserted that the 
Award in Chin.a is the same level award as Pulitzer Prize in the U.S." In addition, the 
Petitioner provided a certificate from proclaiming that its award "is the highest-ranked 
award for national television broadcasting stations." However, · and did not 
provide detailed or corroborating information to support their opinions. For example, 
did not explain why he believed it to be "the most significant award" or why he compared it 
to a Pulitzer Prize. · 
On appeal, the Petitioner offers screenshots from 945theanswer.com and seattletimes.com 
highlighting that is "government-backed" and a "state-sanctioned umbrella group of official 
industry organizations." These ·documents do not relate the Petitioner's award, nor do they 
demonstrate the nature of the award or the national or international recognition it receives-2 
Moreover, she contends that a television show, . also won a Award" in 
1996, which was aired on the widely watched Central Committee Television (CCTV). Thus,. she 
posits that "it stands to reason that if a program of such caliber as had garnered the 
1996 · Award, then it must speak volume about the prestige of the Award and the 
merits of [her] TV program." The Petitioner did not show how another television program that 
received a Award" demonstrates that the award is nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. The issue here is not the reputation or popularity of another 
television program or station, but rather the national or international recognition of the prize or 
award by the field. Therefore, the fact that bes.towed a Award" 
does not establish that the award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field. 
Regarding the Award," the Petitioner makes the same arguments 
relating to "back[ing] by the Chinese government." In addition, she refers to previously 
submitted screenshots that indicate "is a top-grade national news association which is 
compose[d] of the production and industry report of the heads of various departments of the central 
government," "set up in late December to keep an _eye on and reduce the huge issue of media 
plagiarism within China," and "organize[s] training courses for reporters and editors of industry 
media." Again, she did not demonstrate that these governmenf-authorized awards are nationally·or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
1 Although the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based on receiving the "1996 
Award,'" she does not continue to do so on appeal. nor does the reflect that this award qualit'ics her eligibility for 
this criterion. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
.
Maller of L-W-
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material abolll the alien in professional or mc{jor trade publications or other major 
media . .relating to the alien ·s work in the field.for which classUication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the Ii/le. date. and author (~lthe material. and any'necessc11y 1ransla1ion. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on three articles: 
(book.sina.com), 
(ifeng.com), and 
(nytimes.com). The record, howeyer, does not reflect 
published material about the Petitioner.3 Instead. the first two articles are identical reviews and 
summaries for the book, · .4 Although the articles mention the Petitioner 
and describe her occupation and education credentials, they are not about her, but about her novel. 
Similarly, the nytimes.com article is about a surge in China's maternal mortality rate. While the 
article references the Petitioner's book and provides quotations, it is not about the Petitioner. 
Articles tlJat are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See. e.g .. Negro­
Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-R.J.J at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that 
articles regarding a show are not about the actor). For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s original scientffic. scholarly, artislic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions of majc~r signfficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have b~en widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, 
the record does not reflect that she has made original contributions of major significance in the 
journalism field. 
In making his determination, the Director cited to portions of recommendation letters from 
and a researcher at the 
Specifically, commented on the Petitioner's 
professional traits, such as· "she does not constrict to the traditional confines of her beat," and she 
"possesses a clear sense of purpose, a breath of knowledge on her beat, and a wide range of 
resources." Moreover, claimed that the Petitioner's "journalistic accomplishments 
are especially outstanding given the sensitive nature of China's birth policies" and "is truly an 
exemplary figure to other journalists and news reporters." Having a diverse skill set, however, is not 
~ See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1. supra, at 7. 
~ Both articles appear to be the same but with similar English language translations. 
4 
. .
Matter of L-W-
a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself. Herc, did not show how the 
Petitioner's personal traits and work ethics have greatly influenced or impacted the journalism field. 
In addition, did not identify the Petitioner's "journalistic accomplishments" and 
why the field considers them to be "outstanding." 
The letter from has similar issues. He indicated that when China Business Weekly 
published the Petitioner's article on future birth rates, "the stock prices of companies that provide 
baby-related goods and services have almost doubled on [the Petitioner's] predictions.". 
however, did not explain how the journalism field views the article as being majorly significant or 
how the increase of stock prices on baby-related products is evidence of influence on the journalism 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements . 1756. Inc. v. The U.S. All 'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9; 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
In addition, the Director noted that the Petitioner's work was cited by the 
. The record also contains excerpts of "Annual 
Report" for 2016 and 2017 reflecting citations to the Petitioner's articles. While the Petitioner 's 
articles were referenced in two government reports, she did not establish how any of her articles are 
considered of major significance to the overall journalism field. Nor has she shown that the citation 
of her article in a government report demonstrates an original contribution of major significance, as 
she did not establish the impact or importance of annual reports on her field. · 
The Petitioner also maintained that her book, , meets this criterion and 
asserted that "[t]he novel received extensive .media coverage from major Chinese online news 
outlets" and "incited widespread positive commentaries and reviews from experts." In addition to 
the two book reviews discussed under the published material criterion, the Petitioner submitted a 
third review, posted on cnpop.org. Here, the Petitioner has not. shown that three book reviews 
demonstrate her claim of ';extensive media coverage" and "widespread positive commentaries." 
Moreover, while the websites summarized and reviewed the book, they do not show that the field 
views her book as having been highly influential, greatly impactful, or otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. Although the review from ifen.g.com indicated that her book is "the first non­
fiction novel that reflects Chinese fertility concept" reflecting its originality, it did not show its 
significance in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that her article, 
was included in the book, 
~ See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. a publ~cation 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian . 580 F.3d at I 036, aff d in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individuars contributions have alreadv influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). • 
5 
.
'Ma(fer <?f L-W-
of China Democracy and Legal System Publishing (CDLSP) . Although the Petitioner stressed the 
reputation of CDLSP as "repeatedly selected as the 'Best Publication Houses' by the General 
Administration of Press and Publication," she did not establish that her article is an original 
contribution of major significance. The issue here is not the reputation of the publishing company 
but the impact or influence of the article in the field. She did not, for example, show that her article 
garnered widespread attention from the field or that the book received high sales as a result of the 
inclusion of her article. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her field considers the 
article to be m~jorly significant. 
Further, the Petitioner maintained that she attended national and international conferences , including 
appearing as a guest speaker and hostess. While the Petitioner offered evidence of her participation, · 
such as hostess for the · she did not establish, for instance, 
the significance of her conferences, if the field views them as authoritative, or whether they have 
been extensively referenced or cited by others. 7 Publications and presentations are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance ." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS. 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), af{'d injJart, 596 F.Jd 1115. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met her burden of showing that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's finding for 
this criterion. 
Evidence <?l the alien ·s authorship of scholarly arlicles in !he field. in pr<fessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . 
Previously, the Petitioner claimed that her articles qualified as comparable evidence under the 
regulation at the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) .8 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she 
"submit[s] direct evidence to satisfy this criterion without relying on the a~gument of comparative 
evidence." Specifically, the Petitioner provides the translations of abstracts for 42 articles reflecting 
the majority published in China Business News Daily, as well as other publications such as 
Journalism Lover, Modem Communication, and China Radio and TV Academic .Journal. In 
addition, the Petitioner argues that her article included in the book, 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 : I, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working' in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, 
may be probative of the significance of person·s contributions to the field of endeavor): see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). · 
8 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to her 
occupation. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 12. A petitioner should explain why she has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the 
evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(J). Id. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show whi she cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. General assertions · that any of the ten 
objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and should be discounted . Id. 
6 
.
Matter of L-W-
and presentations at academic conferences , discussed above, also meets this 
criterion. 
A scholarly arti~le should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned " is defined as 
having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons 
having profound knowledge of a field.9 Because the Petitioner has only submitted abstracts of her 
articles, which include one or two-sentence summary paragraphs, she has not established that her 
articles qualify as "scholarly articles." Likewise, while the Petitioner provided evidence of the 
publication and sale of the book, she did not present the actual article. Further, the Petitioner did not 
offer evidence showing that her presentations were scholarly in nature and appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. Without such evidence , the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has authored scholarly articles consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien· has performed in a leading or critical role for organizalions or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she qualifies for this criterion based on her critical roles with and 
10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.11 · 
Regarding the record contains a letter from CEO, who in~icated that the 
Petitioner "has been promoted to Senior Correspondent for the entire since 2010," she was 
named an "Excellent Employee in 2005 for her professional contributions ," and received a 
"Contribution Award in 2015 for her significant contribution." She also submitted h~nor certificates 
supporting letter reflecting her "outstanding work performance in 2005" and an honorary 
contribution award in 2015. On appeal, the Petitioner presents an ;'Employment Verification" letter 
stating that "[h]er employment performance has been excellent , and she has no criminal record." As . I 
it pertains to . the record includes a le(ter from former deputy director, who claimed 
that the Petitioner "has been one of the critical coptributors," she received two awards for her stories, 
and the "TV station [has] received large volumes of inquiries from reporters of other TV stations to 
collaborate on follow-up stories about [the Petitioner's] original news discoveries ." · 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
10 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that she performed in a leadine. role for either organization . 
II Id. ~ . 
7 
.
Maller of L-W-
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, probative. information to establish that she 
performed in a critical role for organizations or establishments that have a.distinguished reputation . 12 
For instance, did not identify what contributions the Petitioner made and ho\\; they 
contributed to the success or standing of Moreover, employment longevity and employer 
satisfaction are not evidence demonstrating that an employee's role is critical to the operations of the 
organization. Further, the Petitioner did not establish how her news stories contributed to the overall 
television station. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
' The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.Jd at I 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed . 
Cite as Matter <~fL-W-, ID# 1901372 (AAO Jan. 17, 2019) 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1. supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be panicularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the let~ers contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5056436 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 17, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a clarinetist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
established that he satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least 
three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a clarinetist who has performed with orchestras and choirs in Kosovo. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to awards, membership, critical or leading role, and commercial success. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he 
meets at least three of the ten criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been acknowledged by Radio Television! = I the 
Cultural-Artistic Association I I The I I Cultural and Artistic Society I I I Land the Municipality ofc=]Department for Culture-Youth, and Sport for his participation 
in events or contributions to culture. For example, the certificate from Radio Television! I 
awards the Petitioner an "acknowledgement" of his "contribution on accom lishment of the New Year 
Festive Program 2010/2011,"1 while the certificate from~-.---..---~ awards the Petitioner an 
acknowledgement for his "given contribution to The Culture of through the Years." 
The Director determined that this documentation was not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner met 
this criterion as it did not show his receipt of lesser national or international awards for excellence in 
his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner now asserts that he meets this criterion through hil receipr of two additional 
awards: the Grand Prix award at the Internationall I in Kosovo and an 
1 The record also includes a letter ofreference froml I music editor at TVI I confirming the Petitioner's 
participation in "New-Year festive programs." However, this letter does not indicate that the organization granted the 
Petitioner an award or prize for his participation. 
2 
award from tJe '. I cultural center for "performance of high artistic level in international 
competition" I award). He provides certificates, a news article about the 2018 I I a 
document listing the competitive categories for thel lco=0rtion and the prizes and awards 
conferred thereby, and an untitled document describing the I cultural center and competition. 
However, the Petitioner does not explain why he did not provide this previously available evidence 
with his initial submission or in his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), or why none 
of the previously submitted evidence, including his own statement, mentions either award. 
~ing the certificate submitted referencing the Petitioner as a "Grand Prix Winner" at the 2014 
L__J we note that it is written only partially in English, and is not accompanied by a certified 
translation as required under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). Any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a foll English language translation. The translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the 
certificate supports the Petitioner's claims. Furthermore, he has not provided evidence that 
corroborates his receipt of the "Grand Prix" award at the 2014 I I nor does the record include 
evidence regarding the 20141 lor any awards granted during this festival.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner also provides a certificate indicating that he received first prize in "Discipline 
Clarinet! I at the 15th I I competition in 2016. The aforementioned document 
describing this competition, which indicates that it pertains to the 2018 edition of the competition, 
states thatl lis "for those born in the years 1999-2000-2001," or for those aged 17 to 19 at 
the time of the competition. However, we note that the record shows that the Petitioner was born in 
1993, and thus would not have been eligible to receive this award in that category in 2016, since he 
would have been 22 years old at the time. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Finally, the Petitioner claims on appeal that the "numerous acknowledgements" of his work establish 
that he meets this criterion, as in Kosovo these "acknowledgements rise to the level of national 
recognized awards." As noted by the Director, these certificates do not indicate that they were given 
to the Petitioner for excellence as a clarinet player. Rather, they acknowledge his participation in 
various cultural programs and events. Further, the record lacks evidence corroborating the Petitioner's 
assertion regarding the certificates' national recognition. Therefore, while the record demonstrates 
that the Petitioner was recognized for his participation in these programs, it does not support a 
conclusion that he has received nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence as a 
clarinet player. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 The news article submitted by the Petitioner on appeal describes the 2018 Orather than the 2014 event. 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims eli:bility for this cTiterir thrmwb bis membership in tbd I Cultural 
and Artistic Society I ~ I and in the_ !choir. The record includes, among other 
evidence, certified trans at10ns of correspondence claimed to be from I [ I J Is 
president, confirming the Petitioner's membership and discussing the organization's membership 
requirements. 3 The Petitioner also provides documentation confirming his membership in the I I Choir, correspondence from~ ______ _. president of the choir and a letter of 
recommendation froml I a compositor and orchestra conductor. 4 
As it relates tol f s letters, we note that the record lacks the original untranslated documents 
corresponding to these materials. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the benefit 
sought through submission of all required initial evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regarding the 
submission of foreign language documents, the regulation provides that the Petitioner shall submit 
such documents accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). It 
does not indicate that English language translations may be provided in lieu of foreign language 
documents. As the record does not include the foreign language documents, we are unable confirm 
the authenticity of the English translations, and therefore cannot consider them. 
In addition, we note that even ifwe were to consider the translated correspondence claimed to be from I I these documents contain inconsistences related to the membership criteria for I I I I For example, one of the translations provides that the criteria used for his selection as a 
member were the Petitioner's "professional musical skills" and "passing of the tests through the I I" However, another translation provides alternate membership criteria for! I I l stating that candidates must "show extraordinary skills during the presentation in the audition" 
and are selected for membership "with the proposal of the Professional Evaluation Commission."5 
The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92. As the Petitioner has not submitted 
verifiable and consistent evidence of1 ts membership requirements, he has not established 
that the group requires outstanding achievement of its members. 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that his membership on thel I Choir establishes that he 
meets this criterion. Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner was an active participant in the I I Choir as both I I andl I confirm that the Petitioner was active in 
this organization as both as a choir member and a clarinetist. However, the record does not 
demonstrate that this organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
national or international experts in the field. Neither I I nor I I provide 
information on the selection process for members of the cho1r, and the record lacks other 
documentation of this process, such as the choir's bylaws, organizational documents, or other 
3 The record also contains documentation confirming the Petitioner's collaboration and performance withl 
and other materials that we have reviewed but do not discuss here. ~------' 
4 The Petitioner also provides information about the choir's participation in the International Festival of World Choirs, 
held in! I France. 
5 We note that the record lacks evidence establishing that the Professional Evaluation Committee is comprised of nationally 
or internationally recognized expe1is in the field, as required by this criterion. 
4 
evidence, showing that it requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by nationally 
or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, or 
membership. Although on appeal the Petitioner also claims that he meets the criteria related to leading 
or critical role, and commercial success, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them as the 
Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they each); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 17, 2024 In Re: 29277225 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist specializing in Chinese painting and calligraphy, seeks first-preference 
immigrant classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act), section 203(b)(l)(a), 8 U.S.C. § ll0l(b)(l)(a) . This classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not 
demonstrate, as required, that he bas sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . The noncitizen must seek to enter the United States to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability and show that their entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
commercial successes). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
rofile submitted with the etition the Petitioner is "a graduate of the 
'-----------------------------' and a well-known contemporary 
Sinologist, Painter, Calligrapher and Philanthropist." He initially claimed extraordinary ability as both 
a scholar in contemporary Confucianism and as an artist specializing in Chinese painting and 
calligraphy. He clarified in response to a request for evidence (RFE) that he intends to continue his 
work as an artist in the United States; therefore, the Director evaluated evidence related to the 
Petitioner's accomplishments as an artist. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he is required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met four criteria by 
establishing that he received nationally recognized awards, participated as a judge ofthe work ofothers 
in the same field, displayed his work at artistic exhibitions, and commanded significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (vii) and (ix). 
Although the Petitioner also claimed he could satisfy the criteria relating to published materials in 
professional publications or major media, memberships in associations that require outstanding 
achievements, and original contributions ofmajor significance in the field, the Director concluded that 
he did not meet those criteria. 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) must analyze all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets this very high standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not correctly apply the two-part adjudicative 
approach required by Kazarian because they failed to consider all the submitted evidence together in 
the final merits determination. Specifically, he emphasizes that "USCIS did not discuss any of the 
2 
content in the Petitioner's multiple recommendation letters issued by experts in the same field," noting 
that such letters "clearly explained how Petitioner has sustained national acclaim." The Petitioner 
maintains that the Director's decision, because it "did not consider the totality of the evidence," did 
not sufficiently address why he did not establish his eligibility for the requested classification. 
The Petitioner also generally objects to the two-part adjudicative approach set forth in Kazarian and 
asserts that USCIS "improperly adopted" it. The Petitioner specifically highlights a pre-Kazarian U.S. 
district court decision, Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994), which states that"[o ]nee 
it is established that the alien's evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), the alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability unless [USCIS] sets forth 
specific and substantiated reasons for its finding that the alien does not have extraordinary ability." 
We note, however, that in contrast to the broad precedential authority ofthe case law ofa United States 
circuit court ( such as with Kazarian), USCIS is not bound to follow the published decisions ofa United 
States district court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter ofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district court's decision will be given due consideration when 
it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 
719. 1 The Petitioner's assertion that USCIS should rely on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal 
district court decisions rather than Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive. 
However, we agree with the Petitioner's claim that the Director's final merits analysis does not reflect 
their consideration of the totality of the evidence as required. Although the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to at least seven of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits 
discussion addresses evidence related to only four of those criteria, rather than considering the 
evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's final merits analysis did not address the evidence 
relating to the Petitioner's memberships in associations, published materials about him, and 
contributions to his field and whether that evidence, individually or collectively, shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. Further, as noted by the Petitioner, the record contains several letters 
from experts in his field which specifically address not only his contributions to the field, but also 
provide the authors' opinions regarding his recognition and stature in the field and are therefore 
relevant to the final merits determination. 
Because the Director did not properly consider all the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, 
the decision did not sufficiently address why he did not demonstrate his eligibility for the requested 
classification. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
( stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should evaluate all the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
1 Regardless, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization of the adjudication 
process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates that the court considered the possibility 
that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard ifUSCTS 
provides specific and substantiated reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini 
did not reject the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it establishes a 
petitioner's eligibility for this immigrant visa classification. 
3 
I When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on 
appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not satisfy this requirement. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Further, in conducting routine checks to verify the information submitted with the pet1t10n, we 
consulted Department of State (DOS) records relating to the Petitioner's prior visa applications. Those 
records indicate that the Petitioner provided information regarding his education and employment 
history on a Form DS-160, Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application, which appears to be inconsistent 
with claims made in support of the instant petition. As noted, the evidence submitted with the petition 
indicates that the Petitioner graduated from the._____________________ _. 
I The submitted personal profile describes him as a well-known scholar and artist, and the 
creator of "Contemporary Confucianism in the field of Sinology." The Petitioner indicated in his 
concurrently filed Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, that he 
has been self-employed as an artist, painter, and author since 2011 and lists no other employment. 
However, on the Form DS-160 submitted in May 2015, the Petitioner stated that he was then currently 
employed in "business" and responsible for the management of a Chinese company located in Beijing, 
having previously worked as the general manager of a thermoelectrical materials company. He also 
indicated that he was a graduate of1 Iand listed no 
other education. 
The Director has not reviewed this potentially derogatory information and its relevance to the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. Therefore, we find that further review of the 
record is warranted for this additional reason. If the Director finds the information from DOS records 
material to the Petitioner's eligibility, they must notify him of this information through an RFE or 
notice of intent to deny and allow an opportunity for explanation and rebuttal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b)(l 6)(i) before issuance of a new decision. If a petitioner is unable to resolve discrepancies 
in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies, USCIS may 
evaluate the reliability and sufficient ofother evidence submitted in support ofthe immigration benefit. 
See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a music teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § ll 53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter ofS-K-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a music teacher at in 
California. Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner only 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets three additional criteria, discussed below. We 
have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationall y recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i). 
The Petitioner contends to meet this criterion based on her receipt of the "Gold Award" at the 
and "Silver Award" at the 
As it relates to the __ award, the 
2 
.
Matter of S-K-
Petitioner references a letter from a tenor, who described the competition as "a 
platform for the Chinese young people from all over China and all over the world to compete and 
display their artistic talents." Moreover , the Petitioner submitted screenshots from news.163.com 
reporting on the fifth and sixth editions of the teenage festival. While the evidence relates to the 
festival, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the garnered awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. 1 
Similarly, regarding the award, the Petitioner presented a letter from a 
soprano singer, who claimed that "it is a national level music contest authorized by the Organizing 
Committee of '"2 In addition, the Petitioner provided a 
document from the organizing committee indicating that the ' is the 
grand comprehensive expert award of approved by the Propaganda 
Department of the ' Further, she offered screenshots from news.focus.en 
reflecting that "[t]he serves the purpose of talent reserve for 
and the purpose of building a platform for children with music dreams to display and 
exchange their talents." Although the documentation indicates that the award and festival are 
sanctioned by a Chinese governmental entity, the Petitioner did not show that the field recognizes 
the as a national or international award for excellence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the .field.for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on membership with the 
and the She submits 
screenshots from the website reflecting that "[p ]eople [who] work in musical fields with 
musical achievements and having citizenship of People's Republic of China ... can submit [an] 
application." Moreover, an individual "can be admitted ... if being introduced by two I 
members , recommended by group members or approved by and completing the 
formalities. " Further, individuals in the performing arts must meet one of the following conditions: 
award winners at international competitions, national professional contests, or competitions at or 
above provincial levels; held an individual concert and received "good comment"; conductors with 
experience and with certain influence ; solo singer, solo player, or opera protagonist for more than 
five years; second level or above titles as performer or singer; or folk musicians with high artistic 
level, greater impact, and recognized by the commuriity. Similarly, the Petitioner presented 
screenshots from the website reflecting that applicants must "have influen[ ce] in the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 also indicated that "[t]he winner's teacher will be awarded the 'Excellent Music Teacher Award."' 
3 
.
Matter of S-K-
business domain ... of the and either "[r]anked among top three in or above provincial 
professional competitions" or "issued a few works on professional publications above provincial and 
municipal levels and has exerted a certain level of influen[ce]." 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.3 While the associations limit membership by requiring 
applicants to achieve a certain level of accomplishment, such as winning an award at an international 
or national competition or performing as a solo artist for five years, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that such requirements rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the individuals 
responsible for judging the membership candidates for these organizations are comprised of 
recognized national or international experts. 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class(fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. 
Specifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about her in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, which include the title, date, and author.4 The record 
reflects that she submitted an article about her from the International Daily News. In addition, she 
provided a screenshot from Wikipedia, which claimed that International Daily News "is a major 
Chinese-language newspaper in North America and Indonesia." We note that Wikipedia is an 
online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity 
of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (January 16, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 
(8th Cir. 2008). Moreover, Wikipedia does not reference or cite to source information to support its 
claim that the newspaper is a "major" medium. Further, while Wikipedia indicates that the 
publication has a national circulation of 50,000, the Petitioner did not establish that such figures 
show major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also presents two articles published on a number of websites, including 
js.news.163.com and news.ifeng.com . The Petitioner did not submit evidence to demonstrate that 
3 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
Matter ofS-K-
any of the websites are considered major media, and she did not include the required author of one 
article.5 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classffication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that she participated as a judge at a children's singing 
and talent contest. As such, the Petitioner demonstrated that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
While the Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion, we disagree. Initially, the 
Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion. However, in response to the Director's request 
for evidence, she submitted three authored articles that were published after the filing of the petition. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USC IS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); !KEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 
Matter ofS-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-K-, ID# 1920737 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) 
6 MATTER OF G-O-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a hospitality consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On 
appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation, contending that he meets at least three 
criteria and qualifies for the classification. He indicates that upon entering the United States, he 
intends to establish a hotel consulting company to facilitate U.S. hotel brands' entry into the China 
market and will provide consulting services to investors in the hospitality industry. 
Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the-field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter of G-0-
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
If a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Based on a review of the record in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has shown, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, 1 that he has sustained national acclaim and that his achievements as a 
hospitality consultant have been recognized in the field of hospitality consulting. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). He has therefore established his eligibility for the classification. 
The Petitioner has been a hospitality consultant for over a decade. He founded 
in 2003, and in 2007. He has served as a 
consultant for hundreds of hotel projects in China, including those associated with 
and 
A. Initial Evidence Requirements 
While the record does not establish his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he has 
satisfied at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner "has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or ''probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the "preponderance of 
the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
with Certain Form /-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update 
ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda . 
2 
.
Matter of G-0-
establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record 
supports this conclusion. Specifically, the Petitioner is the executive president of 
and is responsible for its consulting, data research, strategies and product 
research, and financial management. According to the evidence the Petitioner has presented, the 
entity is one of China's largest professional hotel consultancy companies. It has provided consulting 
services to numerous hotel projects and has received a number of industry awards. 
In addition, the Petitioner has submitted "( d]ocumentation of [his] receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). In March 2017, he received Award 
at the According to a December 2016 letter from the 
award issuing entity, the Petitioner was nominated for this accolade based on "[his] business 
reputation and influence in the industry." Reference letters in the record explain that the awards 
from the event are the highest honors in China's hotel industry and that national media has referred 
to the ceremony as the Oscars of China's tourism and hotel industry. In addition, the Petitioner has 
presented documentation showing that the event received media attention and that news outlets, 
including those with national readership and viewership, reported the event. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has presented "( e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). He developed a financial analysis system that, according to the 
"can determine whether a certain hotel project has the 
conditions to open, the scale of operating risks, and the project investment feasibility conclusion of 
the best plan for the hotel management through investigation, analysis, and forecasting." Reference 
letters indicate that most hotel consultant companies in China now use the Petitioner's system. 
China Hotel magazine, a publication on China's national tourism and hotel industry, reported that 
the Petitioner "pioneered the investment analysis methods and system of the Chinese hotel industry" 
and that he "has had a profound impact on the development trend of Chinese hotel industry and the 
development concepts of hotel developers." 
Based on the reasons specified above, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Accordingly, we will next evaluate the totality of 
the evidence in the context of the final merits determination. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F .R. § 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets other criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As he 
has satisfied at least three of the ten criteria, we will discuss all relevant evidence in the final merits determination. 
3 
.
Matter of G-0-
204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this case, we conclude that he has 
shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, his eligibility for the classification. 
The record, including numerous reference letters, shows that the Petitioner has been a hospitality 
consultant for over a decade and has completed hundreds of hospitality projects. the 
president of states that the Petitioner "has provided 
consultancy services for over 400 hotel projects" in China. International Hotel Leader magazine 
similarly reports that he is a hotel consultant who has completed hundreds of projects in China. 
the vice president of hotel development in China for details 
the Petitioner's work on projects in China. He indicates that the Petitioner "has the richest 
professional experience amongst all Chinese hotel consultants, and his professional achievements are 
the most prominent." concludes that the Petitioner "is an undisputed top expert in hotel 
consulting industry with a high reputation in the industry." the vice president of 
development in China for notes that the Petitioner's "wealth of professional 
experience, open vision and creative thinking" have led to "his outstanding achievements and 
contribution to the hotel industry." 
In addition, the Petitioner has made significant impact on the field of hospitality consulting through 
his development of a financial analysis system and databases. the vice president of 
development for China, confirms that the Petitioner has "built hotel 
market analysis databases for several hundreds of cities in China and opened to the industry the 
databases of 50 key cities, benefiting fellow hoteliers and consultants including ' who 
uses the databases frequently. states that the Petitioner "has made tremendous 
contributions to the development of China's hotel industry and is indeed one of the most 
authoritative experts in the hospitality consulting industry." According to the 
the Petitioner's system "has been widely adopted by China's hotel industry" 
and that his "numerous hotel market databases and case libraries ... have significantly benefited 
China's hoteliers and hotel investors." 
notes that the Petitioner's investment analysis system "has become the authoritative system of 
investment analysis in the Chinese hotel consulting industry" and that his "databases are one of the 
only database systems in China's hotel industry and are therefore widely used by the industry." 
Other professionals in the field, including who is a professor in the 
at similarly confirms that 
the Petitioner has created a financial analysis system that has been adopted by many reputable hotel 
consulting firms in China. 
There is other evidence that illustrates the Petitioner's national acclaim as a hospitality consultant. 
For example, a number of publications with substantial readership base have reported on his work. 
They include the China Hotel magazine, which refers to him as "a top hotel consultant and 
investment analysis expert" who "has made significant contributions to the hotel industry and 
hospitality consulting industry" in China. Moreover, the Petitioner was named the honorary 
chairperson of because of his contributions to China's 
hotel industry. Additionally, based on his expertise in the field, he has been invited to lecture at the 
4 
.
Matter of G-0-
and industry events, including those organized by 
and 
, his professional opinions have been quoted and relied on as authority in news articles 
discussing China's hospitality industry. Likewise, he has received a nationally recognized award at 
the as well as other accolades, including those from the 
and ___________ in recognition 
of his national acclaim in the field. 
Upon a review of the record in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, sustained national acclaim and that he is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)­
(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He has 
also established that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his admission 
will benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for the classification. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofG-O-, ID# 1922197 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) MATTER OF S-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of applied 
physics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional evidence, contending that he meets a third criterion, 
relating to original contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter ofS-D-
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record, including the Petitioner's resume, shows that he received his Ph.D. degree in physics in 
2013, worked as a postdoctoral research associate between 2014 and 2017, and has been employed 
as an engineer by since 2017. According to a letter from his employer, 
he "applies his expertise in applied physics and materials engineering to nanoelectronics and. 
optoelectronic device fabrication and manufacturing in this research-and-development based 
position." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The 
record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented evidence, including documentation 
from Applied Physics Letters, a professional publication, confirming that he served as its reviewer 
and reviewed manuscripts in 2016 and 2017. In addition, the record establishes that he has authored 
scholarly articles that are published in professional journals, including 
that 
appeared in Chemistry of Materials, and 
that appeared in Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A: Vacuum, Surfaces and Films. While 
the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , he has not met the initial 
evidence requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 1 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate . that he has received a major. internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
2 
Matter of S-D-
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
which requires him to present "[ e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field of applied physics. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The record is insufficient to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, he claims that some of his "most notable contributions" relate to "the structural properties 
of liquid crystals," the "manufactur[ing] of micro-and nano-scale semiconductors," and the use of 
"mesoporous materials and core-shell nanoparticles ... in alternative energy applications." Relying 
on evidence, including reference letters, information on the publication of and citations to his 
articles, his presentations, as well as research projects, he maintains that his work "has been highly 
beneficial to his research field" and has "led to major practical benefits for the development of next­
generation optic and electronic devices, the biomedical field, and the energy sector." 
The record, including printouts from scholar.google.com, indicates that the Petitioner has authored 
approximately 20 scholarly articles, and that his most cited work -which received 64 citations as of 
May 2018 -was published in 2011, before he received his Ph.D. degree. On page 12 of his 
appellate brief, he acknowledges "his relatively low [citation] count," but asserts that citation 
frequency "is indicative of his professional background, not the significance of his contributions." 
He further argues that "citations should not be considered the only gauge of original scientific 
contributions for an industry researcher like [him]." We agree with his position that citation to one's 
work alone is insufficient to confirm contributions of major significance in the field. However, 
evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice 
from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which 
cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of [his] 
contributions to the field of endeavor." USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, 8. 
The Petitioner has presented citation related evidence, including Microsoft Academics Author 
Metrics, information on the total number of citations he has garnered, and documentation on the 
"baselines citation rates" of various scientific fields. These materials, while showing that he has 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form /-/40 Petitions; Revisions lo the Aqjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda. 
3 
.
Matter of S-D-
been a productive researcher and author who has received some attention in the field, are insufficient 
to confirm that he has made original contributions that rise to the level of "major significance." For 
example, these documents do not specifically explain the impact of each of the Petitioner's studies in 
the field, or establish that his findings have been widely accepted or implemented throughout the 
field. Indeed, the Petitioner acknowledges on page IO of his appellate brief that "a researcher 's 
aggregated citation count does not provide sufficient insight regarding the impact and overall 
significance of [his] contributions." 
The Petitioner has also offered reference letters and other documentation showing that scientists 
from different parts of the world have cited to his articles. a professor at the 
discusses in his letter the Petitioner 's most cited article, providing that 
he and other scientists have cited to the article and relied on its findings in their own studies. 
a professor and the Chair of Graduate Studies at the 
states that he and other researchers have "drawn substantial inspiration from [the 
Petitioner's] experiments" and relied on his findings. a professor at 
in Germany, indicates that his and other research groups have benefited from 
the Petitioner's research and scientists from different parts of the world have implemented his 
findings. , a professor and the Interim Dean of the College of Nanoscale Science at 
discussed a 20 I 6 article that he coauthored with 
the Petitioner, noting that the work has garnered 8 citations as of April 2018. "Letters that lack 
specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion." USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from 
physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet 
this criterion). 
These and other letters not specifically mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show that 
the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, 
insufficient to confirm that the level of attention he has received reflects widespread commentary 
and acceptance of his work, or that the field of applied physics has regarded his research as 
authoritative. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently explain how an individual's 
contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036. 
Some documents in the record indicate that the Petitioner has been invited to present his findings at 
conferences, symposiums, and workshops. These activities, as well as the publication of his articles, 
illustrate that he has disseminated his work in the field. The Petitioner, however, has not submitted 
sufficient evidence of the impact and influence that his work has had in the field after dissemination. 
As such, he has not shown that his presentations satisfy this criterion. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major significance" in the 
field. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d 1030, I 036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
4 
Matter ofS-D-
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he has participated in research funded by reputable 
organizations. The record does not show that he had received these grants. Rather, he participated 
in studies that received the grants. Regardless, an award of grants or funding signifies that the award 
issuing organization considers the study, as proposed, to have certain level of importance. But to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion, he must offer evidence that after the 
completion of the research, or the publication or presentation of the findings, the response to his 
work confirms that it has remarkably impacted or influenced the field as a whole. He has not 
submitted such evidence. Similarly, his work in other collaborative researches, absent evidence of 
substantial impact and influence in the field originating from his involvement is insufficient to meet 
this criterion. Every research adds information to the pool of knowledge in some way for it to be 
accepted for publication, presentation, or funding, but not every finding that broadens the knowledge 
base in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific contribution of major significance in that field. 
Based on the evidence in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field of applied 
physics. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
5 
Matter ofS-D-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-D-, ID# 1921918 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-Y-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a chemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a briet: arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of H-Y-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior chemist at in Michigan. Because he 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
journals. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions of major sign(ficance in !he.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director applied an overly restrictive standard in determining 
whether he satisfied this criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by 
comparing him to others in the field who have garnered substantially more citations to their 
2 
.
Matter of H-Y-
published works. For instance, the Director concluded that "while [the Petitioner's] research 
demonstrates original contributions in the field, the number of citations of his work, when compared 
with that of the leading scientists in the field, whose publications . . . have garnered citations 
numbered well in the thousands, does not substantiate contributions of major significance in the 
field." We note that the Director's decision does include a discussion of the Petitioner's letters of 
support, publications, and citation history. In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative 
citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if the Director determined he met 
at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F .3d at 1115. However, the comparison of 
citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this criterion in order to establish the 
field's view of a petitioner's piece of written work. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether he has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director should have focused on whether each of the 
Petitioner's original contributions was of major significance instead of concentrating on his 
cumulative citations. He submits updated screenshots from Google Scholar reflecting that 9 of his 
papers have been cited 455 times, including 8 papers with no citations. Generally, citations can 
serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work. The Petitioner, 
however, has not sufficiently identified the specific contributions he has made through his written 
work, nor has he demonstrated that his citations for each of his published articles are commensurate 
with contributions of major significance. 
In reviewing the evidence, his two highest cited articles have been cited 166 
and 149 times. His remaining articles have been cited 34 times or less. 
Although the record contains samples of articles that cited to his own work, they do not reflect that 
his research has been featured or extensively discussed, nor do they distinguish his findings from the 
hundreds of other articles cited in the papers. While the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of his work through co-authored publications reporting his discoveries , he has not 
demonstrated that the overall field views his research and work as being majorly significant. 
The Petitioner contends that his "research has been cited at extraordinary rates compared to the 
norms of his field." Specifically, he maintains that I article -149 cites) ranks among the 
top 0.1 %, 1 article -166) ranks among the top 1 %, and four other articles 
rank among the top 10% by subject area for the year in which they were published. The comparative 
ranking to average citation rates does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions to 
3 
.
Matter of H-Y-
the field. Rather, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's 
citations to other similarly, highly cited articles, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. 
Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F .3d 1115. Furthermore, the Petitioner indicates that his articles have been 
published in journals with "impressive rankings,'' such as "40.13 7" impact factor. A 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall 
citation rate. It does not, however, demonstrate an author's influence or the impact of research on 
the field. While we acknowledge that prestigious status of the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of his articles in those journals establishes that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. 
Although his citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the number of citations to his individual papers demonstrate their 
"major significance." While he submitted samples of other articles that cited to his work, they do 
not distinguish the Petitioner's written work from the other articles cited. Further, the articles do not 
show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to 
his work.1 Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that "commercial entities have licensed his research for 
development purposes," such as and 
He also submitted "Materials Transfer Agreement" between the and 
and claiming that such "licensing agreements show that existing organizations 
in industry have found value in the material, a strong indicator of significance in a scientific field." 
Moreover, the record contains a letter from professor, who stated that "[ a ]11 of these 
companies are interested in utilizing our laboratory's self-healing technology as a coating material 
that is able to self-heal after damage" and "[ a]ll of these collaborations are in process, and the 
ultimate goal of these collaborations is to integrate our self-healing technology into their products." 
Although the documentation shows interest in his research, the Petitioner did not establish how his 
work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field rather than prospective, 
potential impacts. Moreover, as "these collaborations are in process," the significant nature of his 
research has yet to be determined or measured. Further, the fact that corporations have expressed 
interest in the Petitioner's research is not necessarily evidence showing that the field views his 
findings of having been greatly influential. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ()f Evidence Submitled with Certain Form l-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
.
Matter of H-Y-
Similarly, the Petitioner offered evidence reflecting that he is credited on a patent as one of the 
inventors for 
A patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea does not 
necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field. While the record shows 
that his patent has received 19 citations, the Petitioner did not explain how it has greatly impacted or 
influenced the field or is otherwise considered an original contribution of major significance by the 
field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends that his research has received funding from the 
and asserts that "funding is highly competitive, and the 
government grants its financial support to only the most significant scientific research." However, 
receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. 
Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or similar funding are reflective of his past 
works' major significance, or that is his research conducted with the funding resulted in 
contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the evidence shows that funding was 
used for research reported in his article. However, as discussed above, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that his findings described in the journal article caused a major, significant contribution. 
In addition, he did not show how the funding reflected the importance of his contributions 
to the overall field. 
Further, the Petitioner argues that his research has received media coverage. The record contains 
screenshots from five websites that reported on the Petitioner's findings. However, the Petitioner 
did not show that such coverage is indicative of original contributions of major significance in the 
field. For example, he did not demonstrate that his research and findings resulted in widespread 
coverage and interest in major publications. Instead, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
websites that convey "latest research news" without showing the actual impact on the field. For 
example, materialstoday.com informed that "[s]cientists have developed a cheap hydrolyzable 
polymer that can be designed to degrade over time, and which could offer a viable alternative to 
those used in a range of biomedical applications" ( emphasis added). Moreover, the screenshot stated 
that "[t)he findings ... could become dynamic and degradable" and "researchers hope to investigate 
changes of hydrolysis kinetics under various environmental conditions" ( emphasis added). While 
the screenshot established the originality of the Petitioner's research, it speculates on potential 
influence and on the possibility of being majorly significant in the future. 
Finally, while the Petitioner notes that the record contains recommendation letters praising him for 
his original contributions , the letters do not demonstrate their major significance to the field. The 
letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and 
mention his citation numbers. Although they detail the novelty of the Petitioner 's research, they do 
not show why it has been considered of such importance and how its impact on the field rises to the 
level required by this criterion. The letters contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field 
without providing specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. For 
instance, engineer, described the Petitioner 's "development of one of the first 
reversible polymers that does not require a catalyst or the addition of thermal energy to convert," but 
5 
.
Matter of H-Y-
did not explain the significance of the research to the field or how it has greatly influenced other 
researchers or scientists.2 Likewise, professor, discussed the Petitioner's work and 
findings on projects without specifying how they are considered by the field to be majorly 
significant. Instead, mentioned that the Petitioner's "acumen as a scientist that he has 
consistently published in excellent journals." Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.3 
On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y 
Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
Matter of H-Y-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of H-Y-, ID# 1944299 (AAO Jan. 18, 2019) 
..., U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24227865 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 18, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a scientist seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
from 2016 through the time he filed the petition, he has conducted research at the I The Petitioner holds a Ph.D. in biomedical sciences from a U.S. university that he earned in 20 14, and 
I I as a research fellow in the developmental and cellular biology fields. At the a 
research fellow is one who possesses a doctoral degree and is on a time-limited, renewable 
appointment. The purpose of the research fellowship is to provide junior-level scientists experience 
in biomedical research while they provide a service relevant to the institute's or center's program 
needs. Those with considerable experience beyond postdoctoral training may be designated as senior 
research fellows. Research Fellow, Research 
D 2022), https:/~-------------------~esearch-fellow. 
The Petitioner indicates in the appeal that he plans to move to a new institute soon after filing the 
appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the criterion associated with original contributions. 
We agree with the Director that the record supports the Petitioner's satisfaction of the judging and 
scholarly articles criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the evidentiary criteria 
relating to contributions of major significance, but after reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
do not agree with that assessment. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided articles he authored and their associated citation record, support letters, 
conference invitations, and job offers. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director made mistakes and 
2 
disregarded evidence he offered under this criterion. Ultimately, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy these requirements here. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
We begin with the letters from those in the Petitioner's field. Within the appeal, the Petitioner 
identifies two letters that we should consider. The first is from I I a professor at a 
university in Finland. After reviewing her letter, we agree with the Director that she describes the 
Petitioner's findings as what appears to be incremental additions to the field's knowledge rather than 
already realized significant contributions. Essentially, Ms. I I does not explain how the 
Petitioner's findings have resulted in significant improvements in the field or how they have propelled 
the field forward. 
Next is the letter from an assistant professor at the University of __________ While 
Mr. I I better describes an impact the Petitioner's research has had in the field, his letter also 
falls short of explaining the significance of those impacts. Although the professor informs us of what 
the Petitioner's findings have enabled and how others have used them, he does not describe how the 
expanded use of the Petitioner's findings have affected the field in a significant manner. 
As it relates to the letters in the record, even though the Director could have offered more in-depth 
analysis of the letters, that evidence was at least considered and was found to be inadequate to satisfy 
the standard under this criterion. It is not erroneous that a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) decision does not cite from each and every letter in support of a petition. Chen v. US. Dep 't 
of Justice, 471 F.3d 315, 338 n.17 (2d Cir. 2006)); Yan Lan Wu v. Ashcroft, 393 F.3d 418, 424-25 (3d 
Cir. 2005); Morales v. I.NS., 208 F.3d 323, 328 (1st Cir. 2000). Especially where the Director 
addressed the contents of any claimed letter, they do not have to directly discuss every one of them. 
Amin, 24 F.4th at 394. And on appeal, the Petitioner has not identified any particular letter in which 
the Director failed to consider its contents that also illustrates his contributions to his broader field are 
of major significance. 
Moving to the publication's stature in which the Petitioner's work was published, the Petitioner claims 
such achievements are "strong evidence of his research capacity and exceptional contributions in the 
academic community." What is lacking is the Petitioner's account of how that equates to this 
criterion's requirements. Simply because publishing in prestigious journals might suggest his research 
is valuable, does not necessarily mean that his valued research has significantly contributed to the field 
as a whole. Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
3 
they were of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or 
highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
His arguments regarding the collective or total number of citations to his published work also fails to 
meet this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner focuses on his total number of citations, but not on 
any particular single article while also comparing that recognition to other leading articles in his field. 
In general, the comparison of a petitioner's cumulative citations to those of others in the field in an 
attempt to draw a conclusion of their comparative impact in the field, is often more appropriate within 
a final merits determination after they have satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. Such a 
comparison may assist in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
We view a comparison of citations to individual scientific articles to be more relevant for this criterion 
in order to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual; see also 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). For example, he did not 
provide the citation rates of other recognized contributions of major significance within the field for 
comparison purposes. Nor has the Petitioner shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed 
unusual reliance on his work. The Petitioner also did not establish what an average or high citation 
rate is within his specialized field. 
Even considering all of the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, he has not shown that his 
work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 18, 2024 In Re: 29126540 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, producer, editor, and director, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated he is a renowned filmmaker, producer, editor, and director with over 30 years of 
experience in the film industry. He will continue to work in the United States as a filmmaker and provide 
comprehensive training courses in filmmaking, acting, editing, and directing. Because the Petitioner has 
not sufficiently shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims 
to have satisfied these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (vii), display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to six 
of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and concluded he satisfied only one 
criterion. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate 
display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding 
the Petitioner's display of his work. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate he has received lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. When determining 
whether an individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: the criteria used to grant the awards 
2 
or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
The Petitioner stated he won several awards and prizes at national and international film festivals as a 
director. He submitted copies of certificates, letters, and awards as follows: 
• Silveri laward at the I I Film Festival 2005 
• Award Certificate for Best S~h_o_rt_F_i-lm_a_t-th-e ....1-----~IFilm Festival 2003 
• award in 2000 
• Silver Medal award from.___~----------------'-=ina....:2=0"""'0"""0'----, 
• Letter ofA reciation from the '----------------------' _______ ...,_.....;regarding the golden prize award the Petitioner received in the 
Festival 
• ~A_w_a_r_d_L_e_tt_e_r_fo_r_t_h_e~best first and second film directed by the Petitioner from thee=] 
I IFilm~F_es_ti_v_al_____ ~ 
• Award Letter from the I I Festival of Film in 2003 
• Letter of Appreciation from thel IFilm Festival 
• Letter of Appreciation from the I I 
• Letter of Appreciation from the~I-------~ 
The Petitioner did not provide any information regarding several ofthe awards and letters ofappreciation, 
which could have helped us understand the e of award actuall ranted. For exam le, while several 
of the certificates such as the ones from the 
~-----------------------' were printed in foreign languages, they 
were not accompanied by certified English translations, as required. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Because 
the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the documents, we 
cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the 
Petitioner's claims. In addition, the Petitioner submitted letters of appreciation prepared by the 
organizers of various festivals, yet it is not clear from the letters what type of awards were granted, 
nor does the Petitioner provide additional evidence regarding those awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts he won several awards from prestigious film festivals, that the awards 
were both nationally and internationally recognized, and that they were bestowed upon him for his 
excellence in the field as a director. Though the Petitioner submits general information regarding some 
of these film festivals on appeal, that information was derived mainly from Wikipedia, an online, open­
source collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. 1 
The regulatory language requires that the prizes or awards be nationally or internationally recognized. 
The reputation ofthe organization holding a given competition does not necessarily establish that a given 
1 See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer (last visited January 18, 
2024); see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
3 
prize or award from that competition is nationally or internationally recognized. 2 In this respect, although 
the Petitioner submitted general background information regarding some ofthe awarding entities, he has 
not submitted sufficient evidence regarding the competitions' awards themselves. The record does not 
fully explain, or present evidence, regarding the selection processes. Nor does it contain sufficient 
information or supporting evidence about the competition that would support the Petitioner's claim 
that these awards should be considered a national or international award for excellence in the field of 
filmmaking. Absent, for example, information regarding the number ofcompetitors in the Petitioner's 
category, evidence explaining how the awarding bodies selected the awardees, or evidence ofthe level 
of recognition associated with these awards, we cannot find that the Petitioner has satisfied each 
element of the criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets Ithis criterion based on membership with the: I
(2)1 I and (3)1,....;..,.-____ __., 
I IThe Petitioner explained that he is also the founder ofthel~----------.---1 
I On appeal, the IPetitioner contends that these three associations constitute a "subset" of thel.___ ___.l
and therefore follow the rules and regulations of that group. 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 3 The Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
submit documentary evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements are required for 
membership in those organizations, or that they rely on recognized national or international experts to 
determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
As noted by the Petitioner on appeal, inclusion into these associations is based on the ....l _____ ___, 
rules and regulations. However, nothing in the submitted documentation corroborates the claim that 
the Petitioner's three associations follow the membership requirements of thel I. Even 
though the submitted documentation does not corroborate the claim that the three associations follow 
the ._______ ~rules and regulations of: we will still review this claim. According to these rules 
and regulations, an applicant who wishes to become a member of the association must submit at least 
three films that collectively total 120 minutes, one ofwhich must have been made within the last three 
years; a copy of a birth certificate; a copy of a national identification card; and a receipt demonstrated 
they deposited 100,000 tomans to the trade association. So while it appears that membership in the 
2 The regulation specifically requires national or international recognition ofthe prize or award; the reputation of the awarding 
entity does not suffice. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges this distinction, indicating that "[c]ertain awards from well­
known national institutions" "may" qualify under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See generalzv 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
4 
Petitioner's organizations is held by individuals that submit an application and who provide evidence 
of directing three films and additional administrative requirements, the record does not show that 
membership also requires outstanding achievements. 
For these reasons, we agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 5 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 6 
The record reflects the Petitioner submitted a of an article entitled, ~--------" 
.,.._----,----------------------------" " posted in the Iran on 
'---~-----' 2005. Aside from the title, we cannot read the article because it is illegible. Though it 
does appear as though the article discusses an award granted to the Petitioner, it is simply not possible 
to fully read it. In similar fashion, several of the remaining articles are insufficient to carry the 
Petitioner's burden because the record contains only translations of excerpts, rather than translations 
of the entire articles. For example, the Petitioner provided an excerpt of the articles posted in Soureh 
Cinema and in Shargh. The Petitioner is required to submit complete evidence that is legible and 
contains the necessary translation. 
The Petitioner submitted two additional articles posted in Iran from 2013 and 2016 where the 
Petitioner was interviewed regarding his work in the film industry. Although these articles are 
published material about the Petitioner and relating to his work in the field, the Petitioner did not 
sufficiently demonstrate the publication qualifies as major media. The Petitioner submits a print-out 
from Wikipedia that stated, in part, that News is a daily newspaper launched in 1995 and with a 
circulation of 165,000 in 2015. As noted above, Wikipedia is an online open-source collaborative 
encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. 7 Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not submit circulation statistics or data to compare the circulation of this publication 
with others to establish that it represents major media. In addition, the circulation data is from 2015 
but the articles about the Petitioner were published in 2013 and 2016, therefore, the Petitioner did not 
provide circulation data at the time of publication to determine if the articles were published in major 
media. 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
5 Id. 
6 Id. 
7 See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https:// en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General _ disclaimer (last visited January 18, 
2024); see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted an article entitled,.____________________ ___. 
posted in Tehran Times on I I 2006. Although this article is published material about the 
Petitioner and relating to his work in the field, the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate the 
publication qualifies as major media. The Petitioner submits a printout from Wikipedia that stated, in 
part, Tehran Times is a daily newspaper founded in 1979 and headquartered in Iran. Again, Wikipedia 
is an online open-source collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the 
validity of its content. Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit circulation statistics or data to compare 
the circulation of this publication with others to establish that it represents major media. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets every element of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. This regulatory criterion requires 
a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization. In support of this criterion the Petitioner rovided sufficient evidence of havin been 
a member of the juries for th 
Accordingly, we 
hereby withdraw the Director's determination that the criterion was not met. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We will not disturb 
the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's display of his work. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help establish whether a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, this criterion requires that the organization or 
establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally id. ( citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision 
and instead contends throughout his career he performed in critical and leading roles in his field of 
expertise by holding the following positions: 
• -instructor, director, ~---------------------------~ juror, and writer 
• Documentary and experimental cinema center -director, producer, writer and editor • I I-member of managing board, producer, 
director, and art director 
• ~ film editor 
• I -executive manager 
• I-member of higher production board 
• I-member 
• I-member of the founding board and board of directors 
As noted by the Director, while the Petitioner submitted letters to confirm some of these roles, they 
provided very general explanations of the Petitioner's duties in each of these roles. The Petitioner did 
not provide sufficient documentation to establish he played a leading role in an organization. For 
example, the documentation does not establish that he performed a leading role for an organization as 
a whole, such as by showing he influenced its overall reputation or status, or that he was responsible 
for the organization's success. Nor do the letters show that the Petitioner played a critical role as the 
letters primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions without 
specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples ofhow those contributions rose 
to a level consistent with major significance in the field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We therefore need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on 
the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 8 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 18, 2024 In Re: 28426950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive sous chef, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim and, through extensive documentation , recognition of their 
achievements in their fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met any of the ten evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been an executive sous chef in 0-1 nonimmigrant visa status since June 2018; first 
at the I Iin Puerto Rico, and now at the I II I. Prior to entering the United States, he was an executive sous chef at 
I I in South America. He indicates his intention to continue his work 
in the same field in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 
The Director evaluated the Petitioner's evidence under three of the ten eligibility criteria: published 
material about the Petitioner's work in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
the Petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation; and high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in 
relation to others in the field. The Director denied the petition concluding that he did not meet any of 
these three criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored comparable evidence, failed to consider 
evidence submitted in support of two additional criteria (receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards and commercial success) and did not consider the totality of the evidence. 
Further, the Petitioner incorrectly contends that because the Director only evaluated three of the five 
criteria, "we can ... reasonably conclude that USCIS considered that the Petitioner had established 
by a preponderance of evidence that he meets these two criteria." 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner's initial evidence asserted his eligibility under five criteria, 
including receipt of lesser nationally or international recognized prizes or awards for excellence and 
commercial success. However, the Director's omission ofthese two criteria does not warrant a remand 
of the petition for farther consideration because the Petitioner could not meet the minimum three 
criteria regardless of his asserted eligibility under these two additional criteria. See, e.g., Cl[fton v. 
1 We note the Petitioner appears to withdraw his argument that he meets the criterion for display of his work in the field at 
culinary exhibitions or showcases, which he brought up for the first time in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing 
Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). Therefore, we consider this criterion waived. 
2 
Holder, 598 F.3d 486, 494 (8th Cir. 2010) (quoting Berte v. Ashcroft, 396 F.3d 993, 997 (8th Cir. 
2005)); see also Lee v. Holder, 765 F.3d 851, 855 (8th Cir. 2014); Vargas v. Holder, 567 F.3d 387, 
391 (8th Cir. 2009) (generally standing for the proposition that remands are not needed if the issue is 
not likely to change the result). Further, because the Petitioner does not meet the three claimed criteria 
addressed by the Director and discussed below, it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on the two 
additional criteria relating to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence and commercial success because he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
three criteria. Therefore, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 
(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and 
decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria2 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner provided his 2022 income tax return and Form W-2 showing an income of $71,085 for 
his position of executive sous chef: along with the May 2021 occupational employment and wage 
statistics (OEWS) page for chefs and head cooks showing the annual mean wage for the occupation 
to be $56,920.3 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented how his salary compares to other hotel executive 
sous chefs in order for us to evaluate whether his salary is high in relation to others in the field. The 
2021 OEWS information comes from data collected on employment and wage rates for occupations 
across geographical areas. See https://www.bls.gov/bls/wages.htm. The Petitioner provided the 
annual mean wage, which is a benchmark for the typical wages for a chef and head cook position. 
However, a petitioner claiming to meet this criterion must provide appropriate evidence such as 
geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l)( criterion 9). Here, the mean salary information is for a 2021 nationwide survey of 
head cooks and chefs in all settings, both hotels and otherwise, as well as across geographic areas, 
both major metropolitan areas and those that are not. 4 Without more, such general information is 
insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. See Matter o_fPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus 
other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of 
NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
2 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 While not a basis for our decision, we note that the same OEWS survey (May 2021) provided by the Petitioner shows 
that head chefs and cooks in the top 90% of the field (nationwide) earned an annual wage of $84,570. See 
https://www.bls.gov/oes/2021/may/oes351011.htm. Thus, the Petitioner's salary in 2021 ($71,085) is more than $10,000 
less than those head chefs and cooks earning the top 90% of wages in the field. 
4 We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that he established this criterion because his income ($82,000) at the 
I Iis more than $25,000 higher than the 2021 annual mean wage for chefs 
nationwide according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, his evidence does not include updated survey 
information; thus, there is insufficient evidence to suppmi his assertion. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 375-76. 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner submitted numerous articles, social media posts, and still images 
from his TV appearances. Many of these materials include his photograph, a recipe he provided, and 
in some publications, a short quote from him. To properly evaluate this evidence, we must first 
determine whether the published material was related to the Petitioner and his specific work in the 
field of endeavor. In general, the published material should be about the person, relating to the 
person's work in the field, and not about the person's employer or another organization that the person 
is associated with. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535 (2012) (articles about the Iranian 
Table Tennis Team which only briefly mentioned the person were not about him.); see also Negro­
Plwnpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nevada 2008) (articles focusing on a character played by 
the person or the show he performed in were not about the person). In addition, published material 
that includes only a brief citation or passing reference to the person's work is not "about" the person. 
The Petitioner's published material is not "about" him within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For example, he provided ten articles showcasing his recipes in the I I 
section of the Guatemalan newspaper El Periodico, which include his photograph and the business 
logo for his employer, I I in Guatemala. The Petitioner contends that "published 
recipes included in the various newspaper and magazine articles are major achievements in the 
culinary field," but does not provide context for us to understand whether this assertion is true. 
See Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533,534 n.2 (BIA 1988); Matter ofRamirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N 
Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980) (assertions of counsel are not evidence). Regardless, even if it is a major 
achievement, the Petitioner must still meet the plain language of the regulation. 
Similarly, the articles in National News Guatemala and Prensa Libre 's I section 
romote the hotel restaurant where he worked. Others, such as Contrapoder and Semana's segment 
L___ --.--___ _j--=d=is=l=a7 his recipes or cover an event that he took part in (i.e., a charity dinner as 
noted in.__ ______ __,,. In the article'-------------------~ in the 
culture section of Metro Libre in I I2019, his participation in a Guatemalan food festival, along 
with two other chefs, is highlighted. The article also contains a short quote from him about the value 
of using Mayan cooking techniques and ingredients. Other articles discuss the restaurants where he 
has worked as an executive sous chef, discuss food trends (i.e., sushi and poke bowls, buffets, and 
1zzenas , s ecial events, and other food offerin s in the hotel and tourism indust i.e., 'I I 
ir--------------,.._ ________________ ____J"), and the '---------------~ in which the Petitioner participated as an organizer and chef. 
However, these articles are not about him. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he has appeared on major TV channels, such as NTN24, Nuestra 
TeleNoticias, TV Azteca, and Telemetro. However, the still images of these TV appearances show 
that the TV coverage was about his employers' restaurants or concern other promotional events taking 
place at the hotel's restaurants. The still images of these TV segments do not show that they were 
about him or his work rather than about an event in which he took part. As such, although there is 
4 
published documentation that includes the Petitioner's name, his recipes, and his employers, he has 
not established that this evidence is about him and his work in the field. 
As such, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the person has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the plain language of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he not only performed 
in a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department within an 
organization or establishment, but also that the organization or establishment, or the division or 
department, has a distinguished reputation. In other words, whereas here, the Petitioner claims to have 
performed in a leading or critical role for the restaurant or food and beverage department (FBD) within 
the hotel(s), he must establish the distinguished reputation ofthe FBD and not the hotel. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l )(Criterion 8). To determine ifthe role is critical, we look at whether 
the person has contributed in a way that is ofsignificant importance to the outcome ofthe organization 
or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 
Id. A supporting role may be considered critical if the person's performance in the role is ( or was) 
important. Id. It is not the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. Id. 
The record contains letters of reference and organizational charts to show that while he worked at the ~------~ Puerto Rico, his position was third following the "General Manager," and 
"Executive Chef and Food and Beverage Manager" and that he supervised the following positions: 
"Sous Chef," "Jr. Sous Che±:" "Banquets Che±:" "Restaurant Chef Supervisor," "Banquets Chef 
Supervisor," and "Cooks Level 1-111." The organizational chart for the.__ _______ __, shows 
him to be in a similar relative position within the hotel's food and beverage department (FBD). The 
Petitioner's evidence, including the reference letters, establishes that he has performed in a critical 
role within the restaurants and FBDs of the hotels where he has worked. 
While the Petitioner refers to the restaurants where he has worked as "top-rated," he has not shown 
that any of the FBDs within these hotel chains have a "distinguished re utation." He rovided a 2018, 
2019, 2020, and 2021 "Recognition" list of awards given to the hotel chain by 
.______________________ __, among others. However, these lists do not 
recognize or concern the hotel's restaurants or FBDs, but instead, recognize thel las a whole. 
He also rovided printouts of information about the.__________________ __, 
showin the amenities (including the restaurants, pools, and rooms) offered to its 
guests, the ._________ ~2020 Annual Report and Security and Exchange Commission's 
annual report for 2020, and information about thel Uncluding the hotel's amenities, and 
an article highlighting the hotel's history in downtown! 7 Texas. However, this information 
does not establish the distinguished reputation of any of the hotels' FBDs. Similarly, the letter 
provided by I I explains that she hired and worked with the Petitioner at the 
land that the FBD is "expected to increase by $2M by the end of 2023, due to the growth 
of tourism in the city ofl I-" While we acknowledge her statement concerning the FBD' s 
5 I 
projected revenue growth, she does not address the FBD's distinguished reputation, and instead 
appears to link its growth to tourism and the popularity ofi ITexas. 
As such, without sufficient evidence to demonstrate the distinguished reputation of any of the 
restaurants and FBDs where the Petitioner has had a critical role, he has not established this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), a petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish eligibility, if 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines that the evidentiary criteria described 
in the regulations do not readily apply to the occupation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(3)(Comparable evidence). When evaluating such comparable evidence, USCIS must consider 
whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to the occupation and, if not, whether the 
evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation. Id. Furthermore, a 
general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to an 
occupation is not probative. Id. Similarly, general claims that USCIS should accept witness letters as 
comparable evidence are not persuasive. Id. However, a statement from a petitioner can be sufficient 
to establish whether a criterion is readily applicable ifthat statement is detailed, specific, and credible. 
Id. Although USCIS does not consider comparable evidence where a particular criterion is readily 
applicable to the occupation, a criterion need not be entirely inapplicable to the occupation. Id. Rather, 
USCIS considers comparable evidence if the petitioner shows that a criterion is not easily applicable 
to the person's job or profession. Id. 
In his initial submission and RFE response, the Petitioner provided letters from individuals familiar 
with his work to establish his eligibility under several criterion. 5 However, he does not provide any 
explanation for why USCIS should consider this evidence comparable or why these regulatory criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. Similarly, on appeal, while the Petitioner references "at least 
10 exhibits from experts in the culinary world ... attesting to the extraordinary abilities the petitioner 
has displayed in this field," and includes excerpts, he does not explain which criteria do not apply to 
his occupation or how this evidence is comparable to the specific criterion. As such, the Petitioner 
has not met his burden and we cannot consider these letters as comparable evidence. 
C. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and thus cannot 
be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
5 Specifically, he claimed the letters were evidence of the following criteria: evidence of their receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); evidence 
of the person's original contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); evidence of the display 
of the person's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); and evidence that the 
person has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
6 
D. Petitioner's current 0-1 nonimmigrant status 
In accordance with USCIS policy, because the Petitioner has held 0-1 status since 2018, we must 
explain why, notwithstanding the previous 0-1 nonimmigrant visa approval, the Petitioner is not 
qualified for classification as an immigrant with extraordinary ability at this time. 
See https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. First, we note that the records 
of proceeding for the approved 0-1 petitions are not before us; thus, we cannot compare the records 
to determine whether the approved petitions involved different facts or were approved in error. Under 
our current policy, the Petitioner's receipt of 0-1 nonimmigrant classification is relevant and can be 
considered an indicator that he is eligible for EB-1 classification. However, as discussed above, the 
evidentiary deficiencies in the record do not support a grant of EB-1 classification. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. As such, his grant of 0-1 nonimmigrant visa classification has 
been considered, but the evidence remains insufficient to meet his burden to establish his eligibility 
for EB-1 classification. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12483771 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist. She obtained a bachelor's de lastic arts with a ma·or in painting 
from the University.__ _______________________ __. inl I 
Venezuela in 2002. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her 
field and artistic display. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and membership in associations in 
the field, and provides additional evidence in support of these assertions. 1 The Petitioner has not 
pursued her initial claim that she meets the criterion related to published material about her under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), nor does she contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion on 
appeal. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in our decision. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "failed to analyze the comparable evidence, nor they [sic] indicate they 
had done do." Prior to the appeaL however, the Petitioner did not rely on comparable evidence to establish her eligibility. 
Because the Petitioner has submitted evidence which she asserts supports her claim to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii), she cannot demonstrate that these criteria do not apply to her occupation as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). We will therefore not further address her claim that the Director failed to analyze comparable evidence. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that she "has been recognized internationally with reco nition awards and 
prizes for her artistic work." The Petitioner asserts that her receipt of th~e_'~--~-----~ 
A ward" from the Venezuelan Chapter of the International Association o ~----' in 2010 is a prize 
of national recognition, noting that an article published in El Universal Caracas discusses the award. 
She also submitted documentation showing her receipt of various "prizes," including a 
.__ ______ ___,Honor Mention" from the I I Museum and a "prize" certificate for 
"Outstanding Participation" inl I' by thel !Museum froml I 
.__ ____ ___,I The record also contains several certificates of recognition acknowledging exhibition 
and her donation of work from the cities o~ I and I I along with articles discussing her 
receipt of various other prizes including the I I Prize" for I f from 
Museum of Contemporary Art.__ ____ ~------,-, 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not submit certified English language translations for each of these 
documents, all of which were foreign language documents. As noted by the Director in the request 
for evidence (RFE), all foreign language documents must be accompanied by a foll translation that the 
translator certifies pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). That provision states: "Any document 
containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a foll English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's 
certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." The 
record reflects that both at the initial filing and in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner 
presented an English translation for each submitted document but did not provide any certificates of 
translation. The English translations do not contain a certification from the translator certifying that 
the translations are complete and accurate, or that the translator is competent to translate from the 
foreign language into English. In fact, none of the translations even identify the translator. Because 
the Petitioner did not offer properly certified English language translations, we cannot meaningfully 
determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports her claims. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the record was insufficient to demonstrate that 
any of the prizes or awards claimed by the Petitioner were nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in her field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her receipt of the I I 
.__ ______ _.Award from the Venezuelan Chapter of the International Association ot1 I 
in 2010 satisfies this criterion, noting that the award received news coverage in El Universal Caracas, 
which she claims is a national news outlet with "a daily circulation of about 150,000." This article, 
like the award certificate, is not accompanied by a certified English translation and therefore has little 
probative value. Moreover, the Petitioner's assertions regarding the publication and its circulation 
statistics are not supported by independent, objective evidence. 
Further, the Petitioner has not presented evidence that this award, or any of the other accolades she 
claims to have received, are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
3 
in the field. 2 Although the Petitioner provides an excerpt (in English) from the I I website 
on appeal which provides the history of the organization, it does not discuss the .......... ! ---~--~I 
A ward or the criteria for receiving such an award. There is insufficient evidence demonstrating that 
the prize awarded byl Ito the Petitioner in 2010 is nationally or internationally recognized in her 
field of endeavor. 
Moreover, despite providing uncertified translations of articles froml I discussing her receipt 
of the I I Prize for I I' the Petitioner did not present any supporting 
evidence documenting her receipt of the award. 3 
Although the uncertified translations have no probative value, they also do not support the Petitioner's 
claims on appeal. The Petitioner did not establish that the prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field, or that the reporting entities enjoy a national or 
international audience.4 For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided articles published in El Mundo, which indicated that 
she was affiliated with the I I Association and collaborated with the I I 
Organization andl I City Council for the I 12009. The Director acknowledged 
that she was mentioned in these articles, but noted that there was no evidence or other indication that 
either of the organizations had bestowed membership on the Petitioner as contemplated by this 
criterion. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
The El Mundo articles relied on by the Petitioner are accompanied by uncertified translations. Because 
she did not provide certified translations of the documents, they are of little probative value. 6 
Additionally, as noted by the Director, while the articles suggest her affiliation with these 
organizations for work on certain projects, no documentation or other evidence demonstrating that she 
is a member of either of these organizations is contained in the record. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to previously submitted documentation discussing the purpose and 
mission ofl I Organization. While we acknowledge these assertions, we again note that the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 See id. 
4 See id. 
5 See id. (providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate 
that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon 
recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
6 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
4 
documentation referred to by the Petitioner was not accompanied by certified English translations. 
Moreover, the documentation does not demonstrate that the Petitioner is a member of this 
organization, nor does it outline the membership requirements, if any, for such an organization. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that a previously submitted certificate from the Government of 
the Ministry I I granting her recognition as the Director of I I in I I Venezuela satisfies this criterion. In support ~o-f,....t...,...h-is-a-ss_e_rt_i_o_n_, -th,....e_P_e-ti,....t1.,....· o-n-e~r 
submits an excerpt from I I which provides a general overview of the I I 
indicating that the museum wasl ~nd holds a collection of over 5,000 works by 
prominent Venezuelan and international artists. 
As noted previously, the certificate referred to by the Petitioner is a foreign language document 
accompanied by an uncertified English translation, and thus is of little probative value. Nevertheless, 
the translation provided indicates that the certificate is "thanking his gesture, for the donation of one 
of his pieces of art 'mirrors. "'7 There is no indication that this certificate confers membership upon 
the Petitioner as contemplated by this criterion, and the Petitioner provides no evidence of the 
membership requirements for this organization. Although the Petitioner is recognized as "Director," no 
further context with regard to the nature of this title or position has been provided. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements of any of the referenced organizations' members. 8 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree. The 
Petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she 
actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 9 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided uncertified translation of three certificates she claims 
demonstrate her participation as a judge for various exhibits. 
The record contains a certificate from ' and reco nizes the Petitioner "for 
her valuable artici ation as a ·u " in the exhibition 
.__ ________ __. .__ _________________ ~ 
The Petitioner provided no additional information regarding 
or the nature of the exhibition referred to in the uncertified translation of the 
certificate. As a result, we are unable to determine whether her "participation as a jury" was in the 
same or allied field, which she claims is visual arts. 
7 We note generally that this ce1iificate and many other uncertified English translations for the Petitioner's various 
certificates and awards reference her in masculine terms such as "he" and "his" throughout the record. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
9 See id. 
5 
The Petitioner also provided a certificate from reco the Petitioner for her 
"valuable participation as a guest juror" in the exhibition L..._ __ _,....--------,.........J' Again, the 
record contains no additional information defining the nature of~------~ or the type of 
exhibition referred to in the certificate, which again was not accompanied by a certified translation. 
Additionally, the Petitioner provided a certificate from Museum of Latin American Art, Buenos Aires, 
recognizing the Petitioner for her "outstanding participation as a Jury" in the ~---------' 
The record contains no farther information explaining the nature of this "donation," such that we can 
determine whether her service as a "jury" involved judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization. 
The uncertified translations of the above-referenced certificates do not meet the plain language 
requirements of 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b )(3). Although they purport to acknowledge the Petitioner's service 
as a 'jury" or 'juror," the Petitioner did not provide evidence corroborating the certificates from these 
organizations, such as documentation or letters detailing her responsibilities as a jury member for the 
referenced exhibits or donation, or any other evidence regarding these events and how they were 
judged. Without this evidence, we cannot determine that her role as a 'jury" or 'juror" involved 
judging the work of others in her field. Without certified translations and supporting evidence 
clarifying her role, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's finding for this issue. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree. In order to 
meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the venues where her work was displayed were 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. 10 The record contains a list of her claimed individual and collective 
exhibitions, identifying 12 individual exhibitions and 20 collective exhibitions at various locations in 
Spain and Venezuela. The record, however, is accompanied by uncertified translations of only three 
certificates, two issued by~--------~ and one issued byl I which recognize her 
"participation" in "exhibitions." The certificates do not clarify the nature of the referenced exhibitions 
or the extent of her "participation" in such exhibitions. Further, because the Petitioner did not provide 
certified translations, she did not establish that the submitted documentation accurately supports her 
claims.11 
Moreover, the Petitioner also submitted uncertified translations of an "Undefined Work Contract" 
between the Petitioner and the Museum of1 I as well as a contract between her and I l in support of this criterion. Although the contract with the Museum of.__ ______ __, 
indicated that she would serve as an "honorary counselor," no farther information regarding her roles 
or obligations to this organization was submitted. Moreover, the contact between her and thel I 
was vague and did not define her role. Absent additional evidence, the evidentiary purpose of these 
documents is unclear, as they do not indicate that such agreements were related to the artistic display 
10 See id. 
11 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
6 
of her work. These documents do not demonstrate that her work was displayed at artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion, and we withdraw the 
Director's findings for this issue. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which she must meet at least three to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification. As this determination is dis positive of the appeal, we reserve and 
will not address the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she 
seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, as required by 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5).12 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24215289 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish he had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; and 
• Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to judging and 
authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met the evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon 
which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but he also satisfies one additional category of evidence. Because we conclude the Petitioner 
has satisfied one additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement, but it is 
unnecessary that we evaluate the remaining claimed criteria as the Petitioner is only required to satisfy 
three of the regulatory requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided two media interviews. The Director determined that the interviews were about 
safe use of electricity in thunderstorms and protection of power facilities against climate and 
2 
environmental disasters. The Director further decided that this criterion was not met because the 
material only cites, quotes, or references the Petitioner, and there was a lack of discussion of him or 
his work. On appeal, the Petitioner notes that both forms of evidence were exclusive interviews with 
him and they were directly discussing his work. 
The first form of evidence is titled I l and it appeared 
on the I I Evening News website onl I 2018. Although the interview is 
extremely brief, it is about the flow of electricity during thunderstorms. Much of the Petitioner's work 
relates to electrical insulator technology to prevent electric arcs or flashover. While the extent of this 
evidence may be on the lower end of the scale, we do not agree with the Director's ultimate conclusion 
that it is not about him or his work. 
As it relates to whether this evidence is a form of major media, even though this publication is a 
historied entity dating back almost a century, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy discusses the requirements for published material under this criterion stating that it should 
"establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show who the intended audience is .... " See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit any material establishing the 
circulation statistics for the !Evening News website, nor did he provide other circulation 
statistics in which to compare with this publication. Without these types of materials, the Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient evidence to establish the I !Evening News website constitutes 
major media. 1 
Next, the second interview appeared onl l part ofthel INews Network in China. This 
evidence is a more substantive interview with the Petitioner, again about lightning emanating from 
thunderstorms and preventing the resulting electrical transmissions. We conclude this evidence is 
about the Petitioner and his work. Unlike the other evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner 
provided data associated with this publication's website. The evidence reflects! I has over 46 
million daily unique visitors. This material satisfies the plain language requirements of this criterion, 
and we withdraw the Director's adverse determination on this issue. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish 
eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
1 We also note the U.S. State Department has designated "the U.S. operations of .. Evening News ... as [a] 
foreign mission[]." The State Department indicated this publication met the definition of a foreign mission under the 
Foreign Missions Act in that they are "substantially owned or effectively controlled" by the People's Republic of China 
and it serves as a propaganda outlet for the Chinese Government. Designation of Additional PRC Propaganda Outlets as 
Foreign Missions, U.S. Department of State (Oct. 21, 2020), https://2017-2021.state.gov/designation-of-additional-prc­
propaganda-outlets-as- foreign-missions/index.html. 
3 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23133628 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 19, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bodybuilder, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets five 
evidentiary criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on International Federation of Bodybuilding 
Fitness Professional League (IFBB Pro League) membership. On appeal, the Petitioner references a 
letter from J-B-M-, president ofIFBB Pro League, who indicated: 
Before becoming an IFBB Pro, a bodybuilder must earn their IFBB Pro Card. Any 
bodybuilder wishing to obtain an IFBB Pro Card must first join the NPC (National 
Physique Committee), which is the largest amateur bodybuilding organization in the 
United States and awards IFBB Pro Cards to the winners of their best competitors. 
Amateur bodybuilding athletes compete in regional competitions sanctioned by the 
NPC, the only amateur organization recognized by the IFBB Pro League. 
When a bodybuilder earns or has a high ranking, he or she receives an invitation to 
compete in their country's national professional qualification championship that year. 
2 
Athletes winning each category in the National Pro Qualifier Championships receives 
the right to apply for the IFBB Pro Card and become a member of the IFBB PRO 
LEAGUE to compete in professional championships. 
In addition, the Petitioner cites to an expert opinion letter from J-A-, program director at 
Community College, who stated: 
In order to become an IFBB Pro, a bodybuilder must first earn his or her IFBB Pro 
Card. A bodybuilder looking to do this must first win a regional contest weight class. 
When a bodybuilder wins or places highly, he or she earns an invite to compete at his 
or her country's National Championships contest for that year. 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 1 According to the letters discussed above, "[ a ]hletes 
winning each category in the National Pro Qualifier Championships receives the right to apply for the 
IFBB Pro Card and become a member of the IFBB PRO LEAGUE to compete in professional 
championships," and"[ w ]hen a bodybuilder wins or places highly, he or she earns an invite to compete 
at his or her country's National Championships contest for that year."2 Here, recognized national or 
international experts do not judge outstanding achievements for membership with IFBB Pro League. 
Rather, bodybuilders receive an invite when they receive or have a high ranking or win or place highly; 
national or international experts do not judge a bodybuilder's achievements to determine their 
outstanding nature, nor does the IFBB Pro League requires outstanding achievements as a requisite 
for membership. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show how winning a regional contest weight 
class is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on 1 7 internet items and two interviews. In 
order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether the evidence reflects published 
material about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field, which contains the required title, date, 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a foreign associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 Although the Petitioner provided IFBB' s constitution and bylaws, they do not mention the IFBB Pro League, nor do they 
support the letters' claims. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
3 
and author. If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether 
professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
As it relates to the internet material, the Petitioner did not include the dates for 4 of the items and the 
authors for 14 of them. Furthermore, only 6 of the items reflect published material about the Petitioner 
relating to her work. In fact, the majority of the items either make no mention of the Petitioner, contain 
only photographs without any written material, or simply list the Petitioner as a competitor or finisher 
without any published material about her. Moreover, the items reflect press coverage of bodybuilding 
events and competitions rather than about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). 
Thus, the record shows that the Petitioner provided two items reflecting published material about her 
relating her work, as well as containing the regulatory requirement of the titles, dates, and authors of 
the material -I ltv andl lblog. Regarding! ltv, the Petitioner did not 
attach any information establishing that the website qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. 4 As it pertains tol lblog, the Petitioner submitted data 
from SimilarWeb for I However, the Petitioner did not submit information relating to 
I blog, the actual website that posted the article. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate the significance of the SimilarWeb figures (i.e., global ranking of 11,543, country ranking 
of 440, and industry ranking of 1,515), showing that the website represents a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
Regarding the two interviews, the Petitioner provided a transcript of a television interview from 
News Online posted on Y ouTube and a transcript of a radio interview from I I Podcast 
posted on I I The Petitioner, however, did not include the regulatory required titles, dates, 
and authors of the material. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the specific You Tube 
and I I channels (youtube.com/watch I and I lcom/user-
1 I enjoy standing as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, nor did the Petitioner offer evidence relating to 
News Online orl IPodcast. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that"[ a ]11 her publications are professional publications because they are 
aimed to a specialized audience (bodybuilding athletes and fans)." However, the Petitioner does not 
reference any evidence to support her assertion. Moreover, the term "profession" shall include but not 
be limited to architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers in elementary or 
secondary schools, colleges, academics, or seminaries. See section 10l(a)(32) of the Act. Moreover, 
"profession" means one of the occupations listed in section 10l(a)(32) of the Act, as well as any 
occupation for which a United States baccalaureate degree or its foreign equivalent is the minimum 
requirement for entry in the occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that her occupation as a bodybuilder falls within the definition of "profession" as defined 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications about the person should establish that the circulation ( online or in 
print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material). 
4 
in the law and regulations. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that the internet sites and 
interview venues qualify as professional publications. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on a critical role for On appeal, the P Petitioner references a letter from W-A-, marketing director and co-founder of On 
and the previously discussed letter from J-A-. According to W-A-: 
Since February 2020, [the Petitioner] joined ourl lteam of sponsored 
athletes. She has produced relevant and valuable content for the company's social 
media. [The Petitioner's] outstanding career and recognition in the bodybuilding field 
has helped our organization to increase tremendously the number of our social media 
followers, which has exponentially helped our organization to gain new customers and 
to skyrocket our sales . 
. . . [The Petitioner] has performed a critical role for our organization, specifically in 
the promotion of our product 
She showed our social media followers and customers thatl I not only 
enhances recovery but also contribute to increase energy and protein synthesis because 
it contains Peak 02, scientifically developed to increase performance and power with 
a proven blend of six natural adaptogens. [The Petitioner] also explained our social 
media followers that I I contains a Hydration Blend to prevent muscle 
breakdown and maintain people's health on check. 
Moreover, [the Petitioner] has played a critical role forl by helping our 
company to increase the sales of the products and She 
explained via Instagram posts that I I provides a high energy thermogenic 
that not only keeps people energized and focused during times of dieting but works to 
increase calorie expenditure (burning), making our customers efforts even more 
effective. 
[The Petitioner] successfully participated in the marketing campaign of our product 
explaining that it works to remove excess water, further enhance calorie bum 
and accelerate results as the finishing touch before a competition, photoshoot, pool 
party, or any other specific event. 
5 
Additionally, [the Petitioner] played a critical role forl lin the promotion 
of our product She explained our social media followers and customers 
that is an all-natural, non-hormonal anabolic formula that aids in gaining 
lean muscle, increasing recovery rate, and increasing nutrient utilization. 
For a critical role, individuals must establish that they have contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment.5 W-A-'s letter, however, does not provide specific, 
detailed information explaining how the Petitioner's contributions to I I resulted in 
successful outcomes for the business. Instead, the letter describes the Petitioner's promotional efforts 
without showing how those promotions impacted I While the letter makes the broad 
claim that the Petitioner "helped I Ito rapidly increase our client portfolio, which 
profoundly and positively impacted our sales in the United States," J-A-did not further elaborate and 
articulate how the Petitioner's specific promotional efforts led to the claim of increased client 
portfolios or sales. J-A-did not, for instance, indicate! Isales prior to and after the 
Petitioner's social media promotions to reflect the Petitioner's essential performance onl I 
I !revenue. Without further, thorough information, the general claims in J-A's letter is 
insufficient to demonstrate the critical role that the Petitioner's performed forl 6 
Regarding J-A-'s letter, he simply summarizes and repeats the statements from W-A-'s letter. J-A's 
letter does not offer any new or different information from W-A-'s letter, nor does he establish the 
Petitioner's critical role forl I Moreover, although J-A-'s letter continually asserts that 
the Petitioner performed in a "critical role," the letter does not contain specific, detailed information 
to corroborate its assertions. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajf'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). 
Notwithstanding the above, this regulatory criterion also requires the leading or critical role be for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 7 Although she claims that 
lhas [a] distinguished reputation," the Petitioner does not cite or reference to any 
evidence to support her assertion. Further, while W-A-'s letter provides a brief description and history 
of the company, the letter does not contain any information relating the business' reputation. Nor does 
the record reflect! I enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. (providing that this is one criterion where letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the 
person's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters 
contained detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, 
establishment, division. or department was leading or critical). 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (referencing Merriam-Webster's online dictionary and defining 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person). 
6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd., 724 F. Supp. 
at 1108, ajj'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies the criteria relating to membership, published 
material, and leading or critical role. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria on appeal, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), we 
need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league 
level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) ( stating that "[c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
8 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5444507 
Motion on Administration Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 21, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist who works in several different media, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition and certified the denial to us. 1 We 
affirmed the Director's denial, determining that the Petitioner did not establish, as required, that he 
has received a major internationally-recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he meets at least 
three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 2 The Petitioner subsequently filed 
two combined motions to reopen and reconsider. We dismissed both combined motions, 3 and the 
matter is now before us again on a motion to reopen. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and states that he has now established that he 
meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria and is eligible for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion 
and that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
1 Prior to this certified decision, we remanded this matter to the Director twice with instructions to correct certain errors 
and issue a new decision. 
2 See Matter of B-L-, ID# 880078 (AAO Nov. 14, 2017). In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner met 
two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to published material about him and his work, and display of his work at 
artistic exhibitions and showcases . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v). 
3 See Matter of B-L-, ID# 1320289 (AAO July 24, 2018) and Matter of B-L-, ID# 2119400 (AAO Mar. 5, 2019). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Prior Decision 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the 
prior adverse decision. Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the Petitioner's 
second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. As such, the purpose of this decision is to examine 
any new facts and supporting evidence that pertain to the dismissal of that motion. 
In our immediate prior decision, we determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements for a 
motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. 103.5(a)(3) because he did not specifically point to any errors in our 
previous decision. Accordingly, we determined that the Petitioner had neither alleged nor 
demonstrated that our previous decision, dismissing its first combined motion, was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record at the time. 
With respect to the Petitioner's most recent motion to reopen, we acknowledged that he submitted new 
evidence that included an August 2018 personal statement as well as letters from two fellow artists 
who discussed his biographical information and work. This evidence was intended to demonstrate 
that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original 
contributions of major significance in his field. We determined that the new letters, while 
complimentary of the Petitioner and his work, were similar to evidence already in the record, and did 
not specifically articulate how the impact and influence of his artwork rises to the level of a 
contribution of major significance in the field. Therefore we determined that the Petitioner had not 
presented new facts sufficient to overcome our prior determination that he did not meet this criterion. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
With the instant motion, the Petitioner submits an excerpt of a book titled Ten Years ofContempormy 
Art Oocuwenta Ibe exceruted oaoes are foU-oaoe obataoraobs caotiaued as foUaws· j I 
I 1 
.__ ________________ ~__.__T=h=e.;;.....;;.c.;;.;.a,;;..t=i..;;_on=-.;;.a=ls;;_;o-includes four names, one of which 
is the Petitioner's, and the date and location~-------~· If the book's curators provided 
any commentary or discussion of this project or its significance to accompany the photographs, or any 
additional information regarding the Petitioner's involvement in the project, it was not included among 
the pages submitted for our review. 
The only context for the new evidence is provided in counsel's brief He notes that the book "was 
compiled by two famous artists to record and document most precious contemporary art work from 
2003 to 2013" and notes that "documenta traditionally features artists who have had a significant 
influence on modem art (such as Picasso and Kandinsky)." Counsel asserts that the Petitioner's 
inclusion in this "important book ... underscores his contributions to and widespread recognition in 
the art community." The assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 
1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which 
may include affidavits and declarations. 
2 
Therefore, while the evidence submitted on motion is new, it does not overcome our previous finding 
that the Petitioner did not meet the original contributions of major significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), either viewed alone or in the context of the evidence previously submitted to satisfy 
this criterion. Further, we note that the newly submitted book excerpt is comparable to other evidence 
provided previously. While the Petitioner's inclusion in such published collections of art is notable, 
he has not shown how his original artistic contributions have been of major influence in the field, by 
providing, for example, evidence that his contributions have been widely implemented, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen is denied because the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence demonstrating 
that he meets the initial requirements for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19407241 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 21, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a citizen of Peru, is al I artist and I I painter. Because he has not indicated 
or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met six of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original Contributions 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
• (viii), Leading or Critical Role 
• (x), Commercial Success 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria pertaining to display of 
his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two 
additional criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards and published material. The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he meets the 
criteria related to original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), performing in a leading or 
critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), or commercial success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria in our decision. See, 
e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion related to artistic display. However, the record does not reflect 
that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that an individual 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards (in the plural), that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized, and that the plain language of the regulation also requires evidence that 
each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor rather than simply for participating 
in or contributing to the event. The Petitioner must satisfy all of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims that he has participated in numerous competitions in Peru and received awards 
for excellence in his field, including 1st Place in the I I Painting Competition and 
1st Place in .__ _________ _. contest, both in 2001. In support of this assertion, the 
Petitioner submitted several newspaper articles discussing the competitions published in La Industria, 
which the Petitioner claims is the daily newspaper of the City o~ I The Petitioner also claimed 
that he was invited to participate in various other competitions, and that he also engaged in a 
subsequent display of his work with other prior winners of thel I competition in 1992. 
Counsel's letter of support also claimed that the Petitioner won 3rd Place in the I I I !Painting Competition, but no documentation to support this assertion was submitted. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director noted that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that the 
claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized, and requested additional evidence in 
support of his eligibility under this criterion. 1 In response, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
the websites www.eldominical.pe and www.larepublica.pe in support of the claimed national 
recognition ofthel !contest, as well as a screenshot of the website www.peru.com which the 
Petitioner claimed displays photos of his artwork. No additional evidence pertaining his ~ 
.__ _______ _.' award the.__ ________ __, Painting Competition was provided. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the record was insufficient to demonstrate that 
any of the claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of 
endeavor. The Director determined that absent evidence that the awards received coverage in major 
media or major trade publications, the level of national or international recognition of the awards could 
not be determined. Further, the Director noted that the record lacked documentation from the awarding 
entities detailing the nature of the competitions. 
At the outset, we note that the Petitioner did not submit certified English language translations for any 
of the documents it submitted in support of this criterion. As noted by the Director in the RFE, all 
foreign language documents must be accompanied by a full translation that the translator certifies 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). That provision states: "Any document containing foreign language 
submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator 
has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent 
to translate from the foreign language into English." The record reflects that both at the initial filing 
and in response to the RFE, the Petitioner presented an English translation for each submitted 
document but did not provide any certificates of translation. The English translations do not contain 
a certification from the translator certifying that the translations are complete and accurate, or that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. In fact, none of the 
translations even identify the translator. Because the Petitioner did not offer properly certified English 
language translations, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material submitted 
before the Director is accurate and thus supports his claims. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on thd !Painting Competition, and asserts that 
the Director's finding that this award lacked national or international recognition was erroneous . In 
support of this assertion, the Petitioner submits a letter frortj I Cultural Manager 
and organizer for thel I Painting Competition from 1991-2005 . I I 
provides additional information about the contest, explaining that it was sponsored byl._ ___ __.pnd 
th~ lin conjunction with the Municipality o~ I where it took place. In 
her letter, she states that the Petitioner was the 1st place winner of the contest in 2001 and the 3rd 
place winner of the contest in 2000. According to contest terms and conditions submitted with her 
letter, the contest was open to Peruvian citizens and resident foreigners, and allowed each entrant to 
submit one work of art, with the "techniques used and topics on which they are based" to be freely 
chosen. I lalso confirmed that the competition has been covered in La Industria , as 
previously asserted by the Petitioner. 2 
The Petitioner relies on this evidence, and the perceived reputation of the I I company 
nationally and internationally , as sufficient evidence to establish that the competition is nationally 
recognized in Peru. The Petitioner also points to a letter froml I Chairman of the Jury 
of the competition that was previously submitted, who stated that the Petitioner had won numerous 
national awards and was recognized for his work throughout Peru. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that 
he received the above-referenced awards, he did not submit sufficient documentary evidence that the 
awards garnered national or international-level media coverage to demonstrate that his prizes or 
awards satisfy the plain language requirements of this criterion. The record indicates that the I I Painting Contest received media coverage in La Industria, which appears to be a 
local newspaper based in the city o~ I Despite the assertions of the Petitioner andl I 
who claim that the publication has significant media reach, there are no objective circulation figures 
for the publication showing that its news coverage is indicative of national or international recognition. 
Moreover , as previously noted, the articles submitted from La Industria were not accompanied by the 
requisite certified English translations , and therefore have little probative value. 
2 Unlike the evidence submitted prior to adjudication , all foreign language material submitted on appeal was accompanied 
by certified English translations as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
4 
Moreover, despite the Petitioner's assertions regarding the prestigious reputation of the contest, the 
record is insufficient to support such claims. We acknowledge the supplemental documentation 
submitted on appeal provides additional information regarding the contest, including the fact that it is 
open to all Peruvian citizens or resident foreigners . However , while the Petitioner provides evidence 
indicating the winners were selected from a pool of national contestants , he has failed to produce 
evidence that this award is recognized at a national level. Selection from a national pool of candidates 
does not necessarily impart national significance to an award. Again, media coverage by newspapers 
specific to one location or region, such as La Industria , is insufficient to reflect the award is nationally 
or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner did not establish that the prizes and awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field, or that the reporting entities enjoy a national or international audience. 3 For 
these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, 
we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted several magazine and newspaper articles from 
publications including Aparte, Ellos y Ell as -Caretas, Enfoque (the Sunday Supplement of La Industria ), 
El Comerica , La Industria , Expreso, and Ophelia accompanied by certified English translations. Noting 
that the record did not establish that these articles were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, the Director requested additional evidence regarding these 
publications and their circulation statistics. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted evidence of a Y ouTube video entitled I I 
which the Petitioner claimed was aired on Peruvian television inl 12015. He also submitted 
additional evidence, such as excerpts from the website www.peru.com regarding his work and an article 
published in Peru Shrimp. 
In denying the petition, the Director noted that while the Petitioner asserted that the submitted articles 
were published in major media or professional or major trade publications , he did not supplement the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, supra at appendix , 
5 
record with evidence such as published circulation statistics. The Director also declined to afford 
evidentiary weight to the Petitioner's Y ouTube video. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly analyze information regarding the 
media. The Petitioner submits a letter from the Peruvian Radio and Television Institute, which is 
addressed to the Petitioner and indicates it is in response to the Petitioner's request for "a copy of the 
I !program where you were interviewed onl I 2015." Although the letter states 
that the aforementioned program "aired from 2015 to 2019," and provides link to download a copy of the 
program, there is no information regarding where this program was aired, the nature of this interview, or 
the extent to which the Petitioner was interviewed. 
This regulatory criterion requires "published material" in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media and "the title, date, and author of the material." Video clips are not published material in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Absent additional evidence, the Petitioner did not establish that the screenshot of the 
Y ouTube video constitutes published material about him relating to his work. The Petitioner did not 
provide a transcript or other evidence detailing or showing the content of the material. 
The Petitioner also provided no information related to the distribution data of the newspapers or 
magazines in which the presented articles were featured to establish this published material has a 
national rather than a regional reach within country. Publications with only a regional reach are not 
generally considered to be major media and the Petitioner has not established these publications are 
professional or major trade publications as required by the regulation . The Petitioner submitted no 
additional evidence that might amount to major media, professional publications, or major trade 
publications, and on appeal acknowledges that "[a]dmittedly we did not provide circulation statistics 
for the publications where articles appeared about the beneficiary and his work," and that "we made 
every effort to secure circulation statistics without success." Although the Petitioner asserts that El 
Comerica "is the oldest and largest national newspaper in Peru" and provides a report from Reporters 
Without Borders commenting on the Internet traffic for the El Comerica Group, this documentation 
alone does not demonstrate that El Comerica is a professional or major trade publications or other 
major media as contemplated by this criterion. Additionally, the Petitioner's assertions regarding the 
publication La Industria are not supported by independent, objective evidence . 
Further, as noted by the Director, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the 
publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. 
July 6, 2007) ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that we did not have to rely on a 
company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). Additionally, as the Director further noted, there are no assurances about the reliability of the 
content from Wikipedia , an open, user-edited internet site. See Lamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey , 
540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7031068 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 22, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research senior specialist in the field of pharmacochemistry, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner established 
that he met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, of which he 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets a third evidentiary criterion and is otherwise eligible for 
the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry from niversity 
in China in 2004 and 2007, respectively. In June 2008, he joined the University of.__ __ ____,s 
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences as a visiting research scholar, and, since 2013, has worked for 
this employer as a research senior specialist. The record reflects that his area of specialization is in 
.__ _____ __. a branch of pharmacology that investigates drug I I and the I I 
drugs within the body. A letter verif in the Petitioner's current employment indicates that, as a 
research senior specialist, he uses and develops D methodologies to 
measure the concentration of various drugs in ses data analysis software to perform 
quality control measures, performs drug '-----~ studies using I I and I I, and performs othe.i--L'...,,"=·",.;:,1.,,,,,_,,rr,.,.~""""'Y responsibilities. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
contributed to the University of 's research studies in various medical fields including! I 
therapy and drugl I, prevention o ,__ __ _. birth, prevention ofi I in transplant patients 
and other areas of transplantation research. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
As noted, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging 
the work of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer-reviewed manuscripts for 
several journals including Acta Biomateriala and Journal of Bioanalysis & Biomedicine. In addition, 
the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals 
including Biomaterials, Acta Biomateriala, Hepatology, American Journal of Obstetrics & 
Gynecology, Nature Communications, and Cell Transplantation. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfies the requirements of the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance in his field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that he has made several original contributions of major significance in his field 
as evidenced by his published research, citation record, and letters from experts in the field. On appeal, 
he claims that "more than 4 million people every year benefit from my scientific contributions in 
Pregnancy, Preterm Birth, Antibiotic prophylaxis, Transplantation, and Cancer." 
The Petitioner's original scientific contributions are summarized in the record as follows: (1) he 
contributed to synthesizing two c=Jcompounds which have been shown to improve the efficacy and 
lessen the cytotoxicity of the anti-cancer drugs I landl lin mice; (2) he contributed to 
the d
1esignl of a purified I I enzyme (TDE) used for the separation of human I I 
from tissue, and performed other assessments of~ I functions in cell culture; (3) he 
investigated the use of progesterone I I to prevent the pre-term birth and studied the effect of I I jn thd I ofl C; (4) he studied the impact ofl I drugs 
in patients receiving I therapy to prevent organ rejection and determined the need for 
therapeutic drug monitoring in this population, particularly for patients with I I and (5) he 
developed and validated al l probe for measuring amino acids and rher materials that cannot 
be effectively measured by high performance! . 
Expert Opinion Letters 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, 2 as discussed below, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance or support his 
claim that his original contributions have already impacted millions of patients with various clinical 
conditions. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their 
publications in journals, and point to the citation of his work by others. Although they reflect the 
novelty of the projects on which he worked, they do not show how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this 
criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
The Petitioner notes that he is "particularly well-known" for develo ment of al lcarrier 
for the delivery of the drug I Ito patients with cancer. He rovided several 
expert opinion letters that address this research, including one from.__ ______ __, an associate 
dean at the University o±i School of Pharmacf' whl explains that the Petitioner developed 
variations of the common anti-cancer agents D and "with reduced toxicity and increased 
clinical viability," and states that the Petitioner's findings "are highly significant in the area of 
oncology and cancer research, as they introduce a demonstrably effective alternative approach to 
'classical' chemotherapy." 
I an assistant professor at'-------..----~------------ further described 
'-th_1_· s-r-e-se_a_r-ch .... noyng thr the Petitioner' S studies "resulted in the development of several I I I land formulations that exhibited superior antitumor activity while reducing the risk 
of harmful side effects." He notes that the formulations developed were based on conjugates derived 
from.__ _________________ __. and states that the Petitioner explained "a novel 
strategy to effectively co-deliver these two therapeutic compounds to the tumors." I I states 
that the Petitioner's work "marks a major milestone in cancer research" and is "instrumental" in his 
own work, but does not explain how his research has been impacted or elaborate as to why the research 
was considered a "major milestone." 
of Universit states that the Petitioner's 2013 article I 
'----------------------------------~' has "figured 
prominently" in his own work. He notes that the Petitioner's studies in this area "advanced the field's 
understanding of pharmacokinetics and treatments for cancer" and "helped to facilitate advancement 
toward the development of drugs that effectively target and treat cancer."1 < I states that he cited 
the above-referenced article in his own article I l" and notes that his publicati._o_n_'-'w_o_u_l_d_h_a_v_e_b_e_e_n_g_l_a-ri_n_g_ly-in_c_o_m_p_l_e_te_"_w-it_h_ou_t_. 
the Petitioner's prior research. In addition, he notes that the Petitioner's "research has facilitated the 
advancement of improvements tol I and I !delivery research" and "engendered 
subsequent valuable work in the field." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I associate professor at .... l _ __._ ___ _. 
University Cancer Hospital, who states that the Petitioner "has made numerfms )andmlrk contributions 
in the uphill battel [sic] against cancer," and discusses his work with ._ ____ _._ as a "scientific 
breakthrough" that "raises hopes of a new type of therapy that could treat cancer." Overall, however, 
none of the expert letters elaborated or discussed whether the Petitioner's findings have been 
implemented beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent 
of their application. While the letters praise the Petitioner's research as original, valuable and 
promising, they have not sufficiently detailed in what ways his studies have already advanced the state 
of research in this field or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider 
field beyond the teams of researchers who have directly cited his articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence that the University of I I has been granted two 
patents for "formulations and carrier systems" that cite his papers in this field. The Petitioner is not 
listed as an inventor on either patent. Even if he were acknowledged as an inventor, we note that a 
patent recognizes the originality of an idea, but it would not demonstrate that he made a contribution 
4 
of major significance in the field. Rather, the significance of the innovation must be determined on a 
case-by-case basis, and considered in light of other evidence in the record. 
With respect to the Petitioner's research ofl !metabolic functions in cell culture, he states that 
he has "done pioneering work in the area of in vitro model development for isolation of I I 
I t and has "enlightened scientists around the world with a methodology for isolating and 
culturin&I lcells for various studies." I I a professor at the University of 
I } Transplant~Institute, discussed the Petitioner's research in this area, noting that the 
Petitioner's "novel L_J approach is both a safe and effective approach for clinical I I 
transplantation." He also identified another researcher who cited the Petitioner's research, noting that 
the Petitioner's work onl I transplants was "valuable to the execution of this study." D 
'-----.-----I a professor at the University of~--------- states that a "cell isolation 
core" at uses a protocol directly modified from the Petitioner's method to isolate human 
,,___ ___ .....,from I ltissue. More generally,! I notes that the ability to isolate human 
...___ ___ _.is critical to studying and treating0diseases, and states that "the conclusions shaped 
by [the Petitioner's] guidance hold weighty implications for the progressing advancement of modem 
medical solutions." 
These two letters are not sufficiently detailed to explain how the Petitioner's research in the area of 
humatj I isolation is considered to be an original contribution of major significance. Further, 
we note that the Petitioner states that he developed "a methodology for isolating and culturing human ~ cells," and I J's letter seems to support this statement. However, the Petitioner's published 
article indicates that his research group's objective was to o timize the composition of al I 
~-----lenzyme I I reagent used for the isolation of to ensure consistency and 
purity. In fact, the Petitioner's paper states that the and subsequent! I 
Petitioner's own claim that he developed a methodology for isolating and culturin The isolation procedures used were developed by ... " and therefore dogrt the 
Petitioner's paper does indicate that his g1oup !developed aD reagent called by reverse 
engineering a particular lot of an existing reagent that was being used in the Petitioner's lab. 
While the research appears to have been novel based on its objective to identify an ideal composition 
.fur..c=J reagents used in I ~ isolation, the Petitioner did not establish, for example, that the ~ product developed is being widely used for isolation ofl lor that this research has 
otherwise had an impact of major significance on the field. 
Turning to the Petitioner's research involving pre-term labor in pregnant women a su orting cover 
letter indicates that he "developed a cost effective compounde · for treatment 
of pre-term birth." The Petitioner submitted a letter from .__ _____ __. of the University of I I School of Medicine. I I echoes the Petitioner's statemevt that bis 
research "resulted in developing an effective, safe, and inexpensive alternative for L I 
treatment" and states that it "has the potential in helping more than 130,000 who receive treatment for 
preterm delivery each year." However, the Petitioner's article, titled 
~-___._......,,es not corroborate the Petitioner's claim that his ~------------------I res ear ch group developed a cost effective ~--~treatment. Rather it states that they evaluated the 
quality of compounded I I samples obtained from 15 U.S nhaouac1es, which produce an 
alternative to the much more expensive FDA-approved version ofl I marketed as I I 
The article reflects that similar studies had already been undertaken by other researchers, and by the 
5 
FDA itself. The study concluded that the compounded I I evaluated did not raise any safety 
concerns when assessed for potency, sterility, pyrogen status or iu,u.L.LLLL.U..1....i---1 hile it appears this 
research somewhat expanded upon prior evaluations of compounded · dent that the 
Petitioner's research did not result in the development of a new inexpensiv ,__ __ ___,treatment as 
claimed by the Petitioner and aprareut)v confirmed by I I rather, it confirmed the safety of 
available compounded versions ofl I We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion 
statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as 
expert testimony. However, where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way 
questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791 (Comm'r 1988). Further, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's 
research in this area was deemed a contribution of major significance in the field . 
.__ _____ ~I a professor at the University of.__ ___________ ~ indicates that the 
Petitioner worked with him in researching medications taken by pregnant women and served as the 
primary assayist of blood and tissue samples collected during these studies. He notes that the 
Petitioner developed an assay for I I but does not otherwise address the above-referenced 
study or its impact on the field. He also states that the Petitioner developed assays forl l 
an agent used to treat patients with anl I disorder. I I indicates that his research with I I has led to a change in how the medication is administered to pregnant women in terms 
of dosage. He also states that the studies in which the Petitioner participated have "ba4 significant 
impact on pregnancy care." He does not state that the Petitioner's study on I J has had an 
impact of major significance on the field. Further, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner has 
published research with respect tol I and pregnancy and it is unclear whether or to what 
extent he has contributed to the dosage recommendations referenced byl l or whether those 
recommendations have been widely implemented in the field, or are being implemented within the 
University ofl I medical system. 
Finally, the Petitioner indicates that he studied the effect of endogenous steroid hormones on 
pharmacokinetics of I I in pregnant women. '---~---~of the University of I I I I School of Medicine comments on the Petitioner's research in this area, stating that he 
"sought to provide evidence-based guidelines for the use of~ I in preventing premature 
birth." He indicates that the Petitioner's study evaluated I I andl I and 
noted that plasma concentrations ofl I varied significantly between patients, f espjte jd[ntical 
doses, and found that endogenous steroid hormones inhibited the metabolism of ,__ __ _., thus 
explaining the observed discrepancy. I I explains the Petitioner's study, but does not elaborate 
as to how or to what extent the Petitioner's research has significantly impacted the field. The record 
does not, for example, demonstrate that the Petitioner's research resulted in implementation of the 
evidence-based guidelines referenced byl I Therefore, we cannot determine that the 
Petitioner's research in this area is recognized as an original contribution that has remarkably 
influenced the field. 
The fourth original contribution identified by the Petitioner relates to his study ofl I drugs in 
patients who have received organ transplants and are undergoing .__ ______ __, therapy to 
prevent organ rejection. I ts letter discusses this research, noting that the Petitioner's results 
"highlight the need to incorporate new formulations ofl 1 into treatment standards for 
transplant patients, especially for transplant patients wit~ r" He notes that the Petitioner's 
6 
study was cited by other researchers in a retrospective study, which highlighted his finding that 
transplant patients with0exhibit decreased absorption ofl I if taken by oral suspension. I l an oncology clinical pharmacist at University of I I, stresses the 
importance of therapeutic drug monitoring to ensure appropriate dosing for transplant patients. He 
states that the Petitioner developed and validated assays for measuring I 11 I 
and I I in patient university's hospital and notes that his methods "have been utilized by 
various other researchers in their research work in various patient populations." However, the letters 
and referenced retrospective article do not contain sufficient information to establish that the 
Petitioner's research in this area, while perhaps novel, has remarkably impacted treatment or 
therapeutic drug monitoring recommendations or practices for transplant patients on a scale consistent 
with a contribution of major significance in his field. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that he has developed and validated a l~---~I probe for the 
measurement of amino acids and "similar natural products" in organic com ounds notin that amino 
acids cannot be detected and analyzed effectively using traditional .......... ~------~~ 
I ~ methods because they cannot absorb ultraviolet light. ~-~addresses this 
research in his letter, noting that the Petitioner's! lprobes "allow researchers to collect 
measurement at much lower concentrations than was possible using,c=::J" He also indicates that 
the I I probes serve as a viable and less costly alternative toL__j stating that the Petitioner 
"has enabled the pharmaceutical industry to better screen fheir prlducts for purity, leading to a more 
productive, transparent, and safe industry overall." While explains the novelty and benefit of 
the Petitioner's L I probe, there is insufficient support in the record showing that this 
technology is being widely used in the pharmaceutical industry or that his work is recognized for 
making the industry safer and more productive on the scale suggested byl I 
A letter from I I professor of pharmaceutical sciences at University of I I also 
addresses this research, noting that the ~er made a "significant contribution to the develo ment 
of new methods for various I L" L_J notes that the Petitioner developed a novel 
compound and I ~ probe that is "1.13 to 8.21 times more sensitive th._a_n~------.-1 
derivatives (a well-known amino acid I lprobe)." While D noted that the Petitioner 
"successfully used this probe for detection o±i L" his letter does not corroborate I ts 
statement that the Petitioner's I lprobe has had a significant impact on the product1v1ty and 
safety of the pharmaceutical industry. 
Overall, the letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the 
Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance in the Petitioner's field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 3 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered 
to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or not establish 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. 
7 
that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with 
a contribution of major significance. 
Petitioner's Publications and Citation History 
In addition to the expert opinion letters, the Petitioner also provides his publication and citation record 
from Google Scholar, statistical information regarding his number of publications and citations from 
Clarivate Analytics and Microsoft Academics, and samples of other published articles that cite his 
work. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, 
by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." We acknowledge, 
however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor."5 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence from Clarivate Analytics showing that some of the articles he 
published, in both cancer chemotherapy research and in other areas discussed above, were ranked 
among the top 10% in citations when grouped by academic field (in this case, pharmacology and 
toxicology) and year of publication. He farther submitted a paper published in the journal 
Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of three that should be used to evaluate individual 
researchers in the natural and life sciences" for purposes of fonding and promotion or hiring decisions. 
The authors state that "publications which are among the 10% most cited publications in their subject 
area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that "the top 10% based excellence indicator" 
should be given "the highest weight when comparing the scientific performance of single researchers." 
However, this evidence does not establish that metrics that may be suitable for comparing applicants 
for academic research positions and grants are indicators that a researcher has made contributions of 
major significance to his or her field. 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. 6 Highly-cited publications alone 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance" as a citation ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, any of the articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings have 
remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
6 For instance, according to the data rrom Clarivate Analytics, pharmacology and toxicology papers published in 2017 
receiving only five citations are in the top 10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with such citation counts 
have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among the top 10% of most 
highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
8 
The Petitioner also states that, according to Microsoft Academic, his total number of publications and 
citations is high compared to other researchers active during the same period of time. However, data 
that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work do not demonstrate that 
any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major 
impact his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often 
more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a 
final merits determination. Once again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field rather than where his overall citation rates rank 
among others in his field. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted examples of "notable citations" to his work 
by other researchers. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's research or demonstrate how it has widely impacted the field. The Petitioner's most cited 
article, both in the cancer chemotherapy research area and overall, was published in Biomaterials in 
2013. The Petitioner provided a copy of an article entitled, ' I I' ( Cancer Lett .... er_s_)_, i_n_w_h-ic_h_t_h_e_a_u-th_o_r_s _c-it-ed-to_h__.is 
2013 Biomaterials article. 7 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's 
written work from the over 50 other cited papers; rather, the authors cited his article and two others as 
a source for establishing a well-tolerated dose ofl lin mice. 
The Petitioner also submitted co ies of articles that cite his 2012 Cell Trans Zant article titled 
.__ __ ....," which was his second most cited publication at the time of filing according to Google 
Scholar. Several researchers cited the Petitioner's article in support of a statement that 'I I I t and one paper 
indicates that I " , !according to the methods described 
previously by [the Petitioner's team]." However, the cited portions of the Petitioner's paper were not 
his original findings· n article indicates that '---=----..------' 1s a 
common method for and it states that the methods used in the Petitioner's 
study fo ~------__.and subsequen,__~-~-----' procedures were established by other 
researchers. These and other articles citing the Petitioner's research do not demonstrate how his 
original findings have significantly influenced the field. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several review articles, and 
stated that the appearance of his articles in the review literature demonstrates the significant impact of 
his work. The Petitioner further explains that review articles are "an attempt to ... sum up the current 
state of the research on a particular topic" and may identify "the main people working in a field" and 
"recent major advances and discoveries." One of the submitted review articles, titled~----~ ~ew England Journal of Medicine), cites to the Petitioner's finding that 
compoundedl____J from 15 pharmacies were found to raise no safety concerns. It does not, 
however, support the Petitioner's claim that the article's author "recommended based on 
the Petitioner's demonstration of its safety as a treatment" given that the record reflects tha ~--~ 
7 Although we discuss representative sample articles here, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 
treatment has been a widely used treatment for preterm labor and had been approved by the FDA for 
this purpose prior to the Petitioner's study. 
Another review article, titled 
(Journal of Materials Chemistry B) cites to two of the Petitioner's 
studies in this area (published in his 2013 and 2015 Biomaterials articles) as being among "several 
attempts toward I I based I I drug delivery systems with different antitumor agents," but 
does not otherwise address the impact of this research or the importance of the Petitioner's findings in 
these studies, nor does it distinguish his papers from the other 116 papers cited. 
While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions in several fields of 
active scientific research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review article is 
indicative of an original contribution of major significance. Considered together, the evidence 
consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, and the reference 
letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the Petitioner has been very productive, 
and that his published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does 
not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in his field. 
Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7030770 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 22, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician , arranger, and director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that satisfies four of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , the totality 
of the evidence did not demonstrate his sustained national or international acclaim or that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard to the facts presented, misinterpreted the law, and did not consider all submitted evidence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a trombonist, arranger, and musical director who has performed and recorded with 
various ensembles and Latin musicians in his native country of Venezuela and internationally. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.3(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria for lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material in 
professional publications or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), and authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner participated in voting for the 2016 Latini I A wards. In 
addition the Petitioner rovided evidence that he has authored and published two books:n 
,.__---------~----------' andl~-------------~-~ 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled 
the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the Director's finding that the 
Petitioner satisfied the awards and published materials criteria. Further, we agree with the Director's 
determination that although the Petitioner also claimed to meet the criteria relating to membership in 
associations requiring outstanding achievements of its members, and leading or critical roles for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence to establish that he meets these criteria. Accordingly, after reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion based on his receipt oftwq 11 
awards in 2014 and 2015, respectively. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
that he received the prizes or awards, and that they are nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting 
the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Because the 
record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), we will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted photographs of his award plaques reflecting that he received the I I 
c::Jfor 'Trombonist of the Year" in 2015 and the I I for "Producer of the Year" in 2014. 
However, the record lacks sufficient objective evidence regarding thel I to establish that it 
is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in music or the arts. 
The Petitioner submitted an undated document with the heading 'I IA ward" that bears the 
logo otj I Organization. According to the information provided, thel I is 
"the most prestigious, respected and coveted A ward in Venezuela, given annually by the foundation 
I I of Venezuela and~------~ Organization." The document indicates that the 
award "is granted by the Voting Committee to reward excellence and encourage the work of artists," 
and notes that the awards are granted at a televised ceremony that is "emphasized by all mass media 
in Venezuela." However, this document it is not a letter and is not attributed to or signed by a 
responsible authority for that organization. As a result, we cannot determine the actual source of the 
information contained therein, which limits the probative value of this evidence. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles from the websites La Tertulia (latertuliafm.com), Version Final 
(versionfinal.com.ve), and Biendateao biendateao.com . The article from La Tertulia (which is not 
dated) provides a preview of the "59th Venezuela" ala, indicates the day and time 
of the ceremony, mentions that a special tribute an.....__ _____ ____. would be given to a singer, and 
includes a quote from the producer of the event, who states that the contest had changed and it would 
be reco nizin talent at the "re ional, national and international level." Another article, titled I I 
~---------~-----~--~ (versionfinal.com) is very brief at four sentences 
in length. It notes that the.___ ___ ~Awards 60th ceremony would be held onl 12015, 
and will "exalt the cultural, artistic and social values of the personalities that make life in the nation." 
The article also names revious winners, noting that they have included "national and international 
artists such as I landl I' Finally, the article titled 'I I 
.__ ____________ ___. (biendateao.com), states that I lwill become for one 
1 This award is also referred to in the record as the I I' and 1 I award. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
night the epicenter of the best and most outstanding of the national entertainment industry," noting 
that "sixty recognitions will be awarded in the categories gold, platinum, diamond and double 
diamond." 
The limited evidence of the award's media coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or 
international recognition associated with the I I Rather, all three articles are brief 
announcements of the respective annual award ceremonies held in 2014, 2016 and 2017, and they do 
not support the claim, made in the above referenced 'I I A ward" background document, 
that the ceremony is nationally televised and receives "major mass media" coverage. The submitted 
evidence does not demonstrate, for example, that the award winners receive a level of media coverage 
associated with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the entertainment industry. Further, 
the articles do not provide clear or consistent information regarding the number of award categories, 
the various levels of awards given, the criteria used to grant awards, or even whether all of the awards 
are deemed national in scope. Finally, none of the media articles mention the Petitioner or his receipt 
of these awards. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner documented his receipt of two I I awards, the supporting 
evidence is insufficient to document that these are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership in both the Latin Academy 
of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS) and the Venezuelan Association of Performers and Producers 
of Phonograms (A VINPRO). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner provided a copy of his LARAS membership and what appears to be correspondence he 
received from the organization. It lists the following requirements for voting membership: 
• At least 12 commercially released recordings in Spanish or Portuguese as an artist, writer, 
composer, arranger, music producer or music video producer, including proof of technical 
or creative participation; 
• Recordings must be commercially released in North America, Central America, South 
America, the Caribbean nations, Spain or Portugal. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
The provided "membership registration" document indicates that "All application [sic] will be 
evaluated by a panel of experts who will judge the artistic, technical and professional quality of each 
entry." 
However, the evidence submitted does not establish that LARAS requires its voting members to have 
"outstanding achievements" as a condition for membership, as it is unclear what standard is applied 
to the evaluation of membership applications. Additional information from the organization would be 
required to determine that a voting membership in LARAS qualifies under this criterion; simply 
documenting that applicants' recordings are evaluated for "quality" is not sufficient. 
With respect to his membership in AVINPRO, the Petitioner submitted a document that bears the 
organization's logo and the heading "What is AVINPRO?". The document is not a letter and is not 
signed by a representative of the organization, and therefore its source is unknown. It states that 
membership in the association is "reserved only for those artists and/or musicians who are known 
personalities in the artistic field," who "have recorded a minimum of 50 musical productions in force 
in the market at the time of enrollment," and who are introduced and endorsed by a member of 
AVINPRO's board. It also mentions that, "according to the standards of the music industry," this 
volume of productions "is by itself an outstanding achievement for applicants who possess them." 
Finally, the "What is A VINPRO?" document states that "according to article 1 of Chapter 2 of our 
regulations, the committee in charge of the review [ of membership applications] is made up of 
recognized figures in the music industry that have managed to be among those few who reached the 
top in their field." 
This evidence alone is insufficient to establish that A VINPRO requires its members to have 
outstanding achievements judged by national or international experts, as it is unclear whether it 
actually came from the organization itself. Further, it does not sufficiently detail on what basis 
membership applications are evaluated. For example, it is unclear how an applicant would 
demonstrate that he or she is a "known personality" in the field, nor does it describe what other factors 
are considered once an applicant has been endorsed by a board member and provided proof of 
participation in 50 or more recordings. While this evidence indicates that the organization is governed 
by regulations, the portion of the regulations governing membership application and selection was not 
submitted for review. 
For these reasons, we agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies this criterion. We 
disagree and will withdraw that finding. Specifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate published 
5 
material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the 
author of the material and any necessary translation. 5 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles about him and his work in the field which appeared online 
on the websites of El Universal, Globovision, and Diario la Nacion, all of which were accompanied 
by a screenshot from rank2traffic.com which provides each website's i I Rank and traffic history 
for 7 years." None of these articles includes the author of the material, and the article from El 
Universal is also missing the date of publication. Accordingly these published materials do not satisfy 
all requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Even if these required elements were present, we note that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient 
evidence that these articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. 6 The Petitioner submitted general background and historical information for these media 
outlets. The accompanyin~ lrank and traffic history" provided for each website shows that 
ElUniversal.com has an L__J Rank" of 9732, Globovision.com has a rank of 17,807, and 
LaNacion.com has a ranking of 38,871. However, the web analytics report lacks relevant information 
such as the ranking of these websites compared to other websites in Venezuela, and therefore the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that these publications and their websites qualify as major media. 
The Petitioner also submitted print articles from the Venezuelan newspapers Notitarde, and 
Carabobeiio (two articles). All three articles provide coverage of thel I 
tour of France inl 12009. The Petitioner, who was a member of the ensemble, is identified in C 
captions accompanying photographs of the group, and each article briefly mentions that he played one 
or more solos. However, the articles are about the group and its tour, and are not about the Petitioner. 
Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
about a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner provided insufficient evidence to 
establish that either newspaper is considered to be major media in Venezuela. For example, the 
Petitioner provided background information regarding Notitarde (which appears that it may be copied 
from its website) indicating that it is a national tabloid publication that was ranked second in Venezuela 
in terms of circulation by two advertising associations in 2008. However, it also submitted a profile 
for Notitarde from Publicitas (www.publicitas.com), which describe it as a regional, rather than 
national, daily newspaper. The Petitioner did not submit independent evidence of these publications' 
circulation data or rankings demonstrating that either is considered major media based on their high 
circulation. 
The Petitioner provided an article titled ".__ _________________ -" from the 
website El Caribeiio Radio (elcaribenoradio.net), but the article does not identify an author and the 
record does not include any information regarding this media outlet. The English translation that 
accompanies the article appears to contain some errors and is difficult to comprehend. However, it 
seems to indicate that the.__ ___ ___, Orchestra andl !Orchestra were working on a joint 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 Id. (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
6 
recording project. The Petitioner is included in an accompanying photograph and identified as 
"trombonist" but the article is not about him. 
Finally, the record contains two more recent online articles regarding the ensemble called D ~---~I or I I Orquesta, published on the websites of Capitalino Errante 
( capitalinoerrante.com) and La Patilla (lapatilla.com). Neither article mentions the Petitioner or 
identifies him as a current member of the group. The latter article indicates that five new members 
have formed a "new generation" of the ensemble. The record also lacks circulation statistics for these 
media outlets and therefore does not demonstrate that either is a major trade publication or other major 
medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the published materials criterion and we 
will withdraw the Director's finding that this criterion was met. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. 8 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion, in part, based on his role as a musician and aranger I 
for successful Venezuelan singers, including! I ~---------~ and I I However, none of these individual performers is an "organization or establishment." 
In addition, although the Petitioner provided letters from these individuals, they did not describe in 
detail what role the Petitioner has played in their respective activities or how his role has been critical 
to the outcome of their activities.9 For examplej lstates that he has "engaged [the Petitioner's] 
musical advice" to help him define his sound, and notes that the Petitioner acts as his trombonist and 
musical director for his concerts and shows when he is available. Similarly,! lstates that 
the Petitioner "brings his unique style to my music to create and shape my particular sound" andD I !generally states that "[the Petitioner's] talent has been fundamental to my musical projects." 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner provided evidence that he is credited as the arranger, musical 
director and first trombonist on! ~ s 1 I album. Even if the Petitioner played a 
critical role in the production of the recording, an album is also not an "organization or establishment" 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id., at 10-11. 
9 Id. at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
and the Petitioner's role would not satisfy the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner also claims that he meets this criterion based on his role in the band 
Ensemble an<l I I Orchestra, and based on services he has rovided t'-0....-----------, 
I I The Petitioner submitted a letter from~-----~ director of 
the I I Ensemble, who states that the Petitioner joined the ensemble in 2008 and was 
given the responsibility of being a soloist during several seasons. I I states that the 
Petitioner's "brilliant performance" at festivals in France and lpain !"contributed to the success of our 
concerts strengthening our reputation as one Venezuela's bes ensembles." However, this broad 
statement does not contain the detailed and probative information needed to establish that the 
Petitioner's participation was of significant importance to the outcome of the ensemble's activities. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not submitted independent evidence sufficient to establish that the I I Ensemble has a distinguished re utation, as required. As noted above, the record 
reflects that the group's participation in the Festival in France received some media coverage 
from the newspapers Notitarde and Caribobeiio in~-~2009, but this evidence, which appears to 
be local or regional media coverage, is insufficient to demonstrate that the ensemble is recognized as 
having a reputation marked by eminence, distinction or excellence. 
With res ect to the Petitioner's role in the I ts Orchestra, the Petitioner submitted a letter 
from its director, who states that the group is considered to be "Venezuela's most 
L_ _______ .....,o ... r..,.c ... h..._es.,tra" and that it "sustains its prestige in the quality and musical skill of its 
members." ,___..---_ ____,,states that the Petitioner joined the group in 2005 and indicates that his skills 
as a trombonist, arranger and director "give shape to the particular sound that characterizes our 
Orchestra." He farther describes the Petitioner's talent as "one of the secrets of our success over the 
years." 
The Petitioner submitted an "overview" o~ I's Orchestra from an unidentified source which 
describes the background of the ensemble, indicating that it was established in 1995 as a band formed 
by young adults between 18 and 26 years old. This overview of the band's history describes its chart 
successes dating back to 1996, provides a list of awards wr by the ban~I over the years, indicates that 
the band has toured four continents, and states that its 2015 album enjoyed three number 
one songs on the Venezuelan□ charts with one song reaching the top 100 on the 
overall Venezuelan charts. 
While the Petitioner submitted supportinr evidence establishing that the group enjoys a distinguished 
reputation in the~music field, neither l's letter nor the supporting evidence establishes 
that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role in the group. I f s broad statements that 
the Petitioner helped to shape the band's sound or is a "secret to [the] success" of the band are not 
sufficiently supported in the record and do not establish how he played a critical role. The Petitioner 
provided the liner notes for the albuml I which credit him as one of several musicians who 
played on all or most of the songs, and as the string arranger for the song l I' which, according 
to other evidence, was written byl I While the record contains several articles about the 
group, none of them mention the Petitioner or suggest that he had a critical role in his success. 
8 
Finally, the record contains two letters from I I a musician and producer, on the letterhead 
o~ 11 I states that he is "constantly carrying out several 
musical projects that have positioned [his] name as a producer company for successful events in the 
United States and abroad." He indicates that the Petitioner "outstands as member of my professional 
work team, who in his role as first trombone, arranger and musical director is part of some of my 
frojects counting amongst them thd IBand and the band that accompanies! I I contributing with his talent to the musical and artistic success of his show." The 
record contains sufficient evidence to establish I I's distinguished reputation in the industry, 
but his statement does not contain sufficient probative details to establish that the Petitioner plays a 
leading or critical role for his production company such that he has a significant impact on the 
company's success. Rather, I ts letter suggests that the Petitioner contributes as a band 
member for individual artists who work with the company rather than for the company as a whole. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not provided evidence establishing his eligibility 
for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5424571 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 22, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a software design company , seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a visual designer, as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner employed the Beneficiary as a creative design producer. The 
Petitioner states: 
Throughout her career, [ the Beneficiary's] work in the highly specialized field of graphic 
design and multimedia advertising has been exemplary as her cutting-edge work has 
attracted international acclaim and amplified the brand visibility of the various companies 
that have employed her. 
Before working for the Petitioner, the Beneficiary worked as a visual designer ..... ± .... o..._r.._l __ ...,l<sometimes 
called I I andl I and then as a senior designer atj l 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary met three of those 
criteria: 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director found that the Beneficiary met criteria (viii) and (ix), but not (i). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the first criterion. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets the first criterion. 
The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "has received a number of awards from internationally 
recognized organizations." The record, however, does not support the Petitioner's claim that the 
Beneficiary personally received the awards. 
2 
When the Beneficiary worked atg in 2012, the company's website was nominated for a CSS Design 
Award. While working atl in 2015, the Beneficiary worked on an advertising campaign for a 
financial services company. That campaign received the following recognition: 
• A National Silver Addy award for '._I ____ ___,..------------,.Jr; 
• Honorable mention for a 2015 Shorty Award for ,1 f; and 
• Nomination for a Wehby Award for ~-------~ 
Of the four items claimed above, only one is actually an award. A nomination means only that the project 
was considered for an award. Likewise, honorable mention indicates that the project was a strong 
candidate for an award that ultimately went to a different contender. Nominations and honorable 
mentions can be significant accolades, depending on the circumstances, but would be best considered in 
the context of a final merits determination if the case had proceeded that far. But there is a more 
immediate and fundamental issue that the Petitioner must overcome before we can weigh the significance 
of the nominations and the honorable mention. 
The submitted award materials do not show the Beneficiary's name. The Petitioner asserts: "As is 
standard design and advertising industry practice ... , individual creatives are not always credited in press 
releases of awards given for finished products. However, [ the Beneficiary's] contributions and roles were 
indispensable ... in bringing these awarded projects to fruition." 
Our principal concern is not whether the Beneficiary received credit "in press releases," as phrased by the 
Petitioner; the regulatory language requires documentation that the Beneficiary received prizes or awards. 
Involvement with award-winning projects does not, by itself: satisfy this requirement. The focus should 
be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to her employer's receipt of the awards or 
prizes. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain 
Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update 
ADI 1-14, 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
The Director requested "additional evidence of the beneficiary's receipt of ... prizes or awards," with 
emphasis to show that the Beneficiary herself must have received the prizes or awards. 
In response, the Petitioner stated that, in the Beneficiary's field, "awards are nearly always presented to 
the Design team and not to the individual," and asked the Director to take into account "the frequency at 
which [the Beneficiary] has been on teams that have won or been nominated for awards." Regarding the 
latter point, the Petitioner had previously identified one award-winning campaign, and a second campaign 
that earned a nomination. The Petitioner implied the existence of other such campaigns, stating that the 
awards discussed are 'just a sampling of the honors [the Beneficiary] has received," but the Petitioner did 
not identify or document any further awards or nominations. 
The Petitioner referred again to "awards received by [the Beneficiary]," but provided no documentary 
evidence to show what, if anything, the Beneficiary herself received from any awarding entity. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Beneficiary "was not the direct recipient of the prize or 
award." On appeal, the Petitioner states that has "provided ample evidence of [ the Beneficiary's] awards" 
3 
and maintains that "in the design and advertising industry ... creative individuals are typically not ... 
individually named for awards received for their creative productions." 
The record shows that the Addy Awards go to agencies rather than to individuals. The record does not 
show that individual members of the creative teams rrsonalll receive awards or recognition from the 
awarding entity. Collective recognition afforded to does not distinguish betwee~ I 
employees or single out the Beneficiary for recognition. 1 
After-the-fact assurances that the Beneficiary was a principal contributor to the award-winning project 
are not documentation of the Beneficiary's receipt of prizes or awards. In this respect, we acknowledge 
that a former vice president and associate creative director atl I stated that the Petitioner was "one 
of the main designers on the team" that "garnered several awards," and the president ofi • lstated that 
the Beneficiary created the redesigned website that earned a nomination for a "CCS [sic] Design Award." 
But the record highlights a limitation of such letters. 
As the Petitioner asserts, most of the award and nomination materials in the record refer to companies 
rather than to individual creators. But the documentation from CSS does include the name, twice, of the 
"designer/developer" who created the nominated website design. The name shown is not the 
Beneficiary's name, and the president ofLJ did not acknowledge or explain this discrepancy. 
The record contains no documentation of the Beneficiary's receipt of any nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had satisfied the two remaining regulatory criteria, but those are 
not sufficient to establish eligibility for the benefit sought. Because further discussion of those findings 
cannot alter the outcome of the appeal, we reserve those issues. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary has earned the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 Had the case proceeded to a final merits determination, this would have been a particularly significant point. A collective 
award cannot directly result in acclaim for the anonymous individuals who did the work that resulted in that award, because 
there is no public recognition or acknowledgment involved that would bring those individuals to the attention of others. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7072339 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a "construction CMS consultant," seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of 
which he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that be seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in bis area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked and did not address three of the eight 
criteria that he claims to meet, failed to conduct a thorough review of the remaining evidence, and 
imposed novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted, the Petitioner is a construction CMS consultant who identifies his field of expertise as 
business development for the construction industry. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In the denial decision, the Director stated that the Petitioner claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, 
relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, published 
material about him and his work in the field, his authorship of scholarly articles, his performance in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and his 
receipt of a high salary or other remuneration in relation to others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (viii) and (ix). The Director concluded, however that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of these criteria, and therefore was not eligible for the benefit sought. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he claimed to meet three additional criteria and submitted 
evidence related to his membership in associations requiring outstanding achievement of their 
members, his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, and his original business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv) and (v). 
The record reflects that counsel clearly addressed these three criteria in the cover letter accompanying 
the initial petition, and also identified and numbered the relevant evidentiary exhibits submitted in 
support of each criterion. Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director so that he can 
analyze the evidence submitted under the membership, judging and original contributions criteria. 
Further, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director's decision was lacking a detailed 
analysis of the evidence submitted in support of his petition. An officer must folly explain the reasons 
2 
for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision 
and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see 
also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
The record reflects that the initial petition was accompanied by a 39-page cover letter that clearly 
identified the evidence submitted in support of eight criteria and indicated the numbered exhibit where 
such evidence could be found. The Director's decision states that the Petitioner submitted "copious 
amounts of extraneous material" and "a surfeit of documents," incorrectly implies that the 
documentation was not properly labeled or marked, and indicates that USCIS is not obligated to "sift 
numerous documents to find relevant information." Given the Petitioner's efforts to clearly label and 
identify the relevance of its evidentiary exhibits, these remarks were unwarranted. 
Further, although the decision contains a brief analysis for each of the five criteria addressed, the 
Director's discussions of each criteria contain few or no references to the specific evidence considered. 
Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner was not adequately informed of the Director's reasons for 
determining that none of the materials submitted in support of five criteria satisfy the regulatory 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will also remand this matter for the Director to re-examine 
the evidence submitted under the five criteria considered in the denial decision. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the Director imposed novel substantive or 
evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth in the regulations. The Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not meet the evidentiary criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles, performing 
in a leading or critical role, or commanding a high salary, because he did not demonstrate that the 
submitted evidence pertained to his proposed employment as a "construction CMS consultant" in the 
United States. The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires evidence of scholarly articles "in 
the field" and the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) requires evidence that the Petitioner has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others "in the field." The Petitioner has described his area of 
expertise as "business development in the construction industry." The record reflects that both his past 
employment and achievements, as well as his proposed occupation in the United States, could 
reasonably be considered to be within this same field. 
However, the Director applied a more restrictive standard by requiring that the Petitioner establish, for 
example, that his past earnings were obtained through employment in the specific occupation of 
"construction CMS consultant." The Director also required that the Petitioner demonstrate he has held 
a leading or critical role in the same occupation in which he intends to work in the United States when 
considering whether he had satisfied the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). This 
requirement is not found in the plain language of the regulation which requires "[ e ]vidence that the 
alien has performing in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation." 
Therefore, we agree with the Petitioner that such requirements should not have been imposed in 
determining whether the submitted evidence meets the plain language of the initial criteria set forth at 
3 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director should avoid imposing novel requirements when re­
examining the Petitioner's evidence on remand. 1 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include 
an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance 
of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 3 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22654470 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Workers, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that they received a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did they demonstrate that they met at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requires a valid signature on certain documents filed 
with the agency (request). 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2). Unless specifically authorized , a benefit requestor 
must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with USCIS. Here, the Petitioner's counsel 
signed the Form l-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion in both the Petitioner's portion (Part 4.6.a.) as well 
as the preparer's portion (Part 6.8.a.). Consequently , we do not recognize this Form l-290B as being 
properly executed or filed, nor do we recognize the appeal to have been properly filed by an affected 
party with legal standing in these proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B}-(2)(i). 
Based on this issue, we conclude that this signature is deficient, and we will dismiss this appeal as 
improperly filed. According to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A), USCIS will reject a request that does 
not bear a valid signature when it receives the request. Likewise, it stands that a request without a 
valid signature that USCIS does not discover until a later date also will not be considered as properly 
filed. See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual B.2(A), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual. Once 
USCIS initially accepts a benefit request and subsequently discovers a deficient signature, the matter 
is denied or dismissed rather than rejected. See generally I USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.2(A). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372913 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biochemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior fellow and acting instructor at the University of I He is a scientist 
in the field of biochemistry; the record demonstrates that his research on protein-based materials and 
artificial hydrogen production has been published in several journals and cited by numerous 
researchers, and that his work has garnered two early-stage commercialization grants from the I I Research Foundation. The Petitioner plans to continue his work as a researcher and 
instructor at the University of I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three criteria he claimed to have 
satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work and authorship of scholarly articles in the field of 
biochemistry.1 The Director concluded, however, that although the Petitioner has made original 
scientific contributions to the field of biochemistry, the record did not establish that he had made 
contributions of major significance to the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director stated 
that the recommendation letters discussing the Petitioner's work in the field lack specificity regarding 
how his achievements have affected the field as a whole or how they are being reproduced within the 
field. Further, the Director stated that the Petitioner has not established how other researchers have 
widely applied his research results. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all three claimed criteria, and that the Director therefore 
should have proceeded to a final merits determination. The Petitioner's appeal includes mission 
statements from journals to support his assertion that publication in these journals demonstrates that 
his research is of major significance. The Petitioner also submits a non-precedent AAO decision 
related to the field of biochemistry that was sustained in 2010.2 The Petitioner's appeal letter provides 
an overview of evidence submitted initially and in response to a request for evidence that consisted, 
in part, of numerous letters from scientists representing universities within and outside of the United 
States. The endorsements from these individuals entailed detailed discussions of their use of the 
Petitioner's research for their own projects, as well as descriptions of references made to the 
Petitioner's work in research publications well known throughout the scientific community. The 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). 
2 Every visa adjudication applies existing law and policy to the specific facts of an individual case. Non-precedent 
decisions do not bind us in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
2 
record included both the articles referenced and objective analysis concerning citation percentiles to 
support the Petitioner's claim of influence in several spheres of scientific study. The Petitioner states 
that the Director did not discuss any specific deficiencies with regard to documents submitted to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's contributions of major significance, and that the Director improperly 
dismissed evidence without proper explanation. 
An evaluation of whether original contributions are of major significance to the field should consider 
any probative analysis provided by experts in the field; endorsement letters that do not simply use 
hyperbolic language, but articulate the impact of an individual's contributions, may inform 
adjudication of this criterion. 3 The endorsement letters of record contain detailed information 
concerning the impact of the Petitioner's work in furthering research in treatments for cancer, diabetes, 
and migraine, as well as in the development of artificial hydrogen production using renewable sources 
to create carbon-free energy. While acknowledging the originality of the Petitioner's contributions to 
the field of biochemistry, the Director's decision did not analyze these letters in terms of how their 
content might inform an assessment of the level of significance of those contributions. The Director's 
decision also did not discuss evidence of collaborative efforts between the University of I 
and a pharmaceutical company involving use of the Petitioner's integrin binder-a novel molecule 
that he created-as a mechanism for delivering targeted therapeutic payloads to cancer cells. A letter 
from the grant program at the I I Research Foundation explains that the Petitioner was 
awarded funding to facilitate the clinical application and commercialization of his research. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Director did not adequately address the evidence of record 
regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa 
petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Therefore, we 
will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address whether the Petitioner has established that he has 
made original contributions of major significance to the field of biochemistry in accordance with 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). If the Director determines that the Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence 
of this criterion, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https:///www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23. 2024 In Re: 29343832 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a global security expert, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification by 
meeting the requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The 
Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider which was 
dismissed as untimely filed. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
1 The Petitioner initially timely filed this appeal on May 26, 2023, but it was rejected based upon an incorrect or missing 
filing fee. However , that rejection was erroneous, as United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records 
confirm that a check in the correct amount accompanied this filing. Because the Petitioner refiled the appeal within 33 
days of the issuance of the erroneous rejection notice, we will consider the appeal to be timely filed . 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. Dismissal of Motion as Untimely Filed 
The first issue before 
us on appeal is whether the Director properly dismissed the Petitioner's motion 
to reopen as untimely filed. The record indicates that the Director's decision was issued on October 
5, 2021, and that the Petitioner's motion to reopen was received by USCIS on December 6, 2021, 62 
calendar days later. Although this is outside of the 33 days allowed by regulation, USCIS announced 
filing flexibilities related to the COVID 19 pandemic in March 2020. In the announcement ofthe final 
extension to these flexibilities on January 24, 2023, USCIS confirmed that a Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, would be considered if it was filed up to 60 days from the issuance of a decision 
made between March 1, 2020 and October 31, 2021. 2 Therefore, since the decision was issued during 
this timeframe and the Petitioner's motion was received within 63 days of the decision, the Director 
improperly dismissed the motion as untimely. 3 We therefore withdraw the Director's motion decision 
and remand this matter for his consideration of the entirety of the record, including the Petitioner's 
motion and appeal briefs and supporting documentation. 
B. Eligibility as an Individual of Extraordinary Ability 
In his initial filing, the Petitioner claimed that he meets nine of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and referenced documentation in the record that he asserted supported those 
2 https://www.uscis.gov/newsroom/ale11s/uscis-extends-covid- l 9-related-flexibilities- l 
3 Since the regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 103.8(b) adds 3 days to a response period when a notice is served by mail, the Petitioner 
had 63 days to submit his motion. 
2 
claims. However, when issuing a request for evidence (RFE), the Director addressed the evidence 
submitted only under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), in addition to seeking farther evidence 
regarding the requirements at sections 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 4 Although the Director 
also generally noted the need for documents in a foreign language to be accompanied by certified 
English translations per 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3), he did not describe the deficiencies in the evidence 
relating to the other eight evidentiary criteria claimed by the Petitioner, and did not seek further 
evidence in support of those criteria. The purpose of an RFE is to give a petitioner adequate notice of 
deficiencies in the record and provide sufficient information for a response, but here the Director did 
neither. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8)(iv). 
In addition, the Petitioner appears to have responded not only to the issues raised in the RFE in his 
response, but also addressed three more ofthe previously claimed criteria. Yet, the Director's decision 
again considered only the evidence submitted under the criterion for lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards. An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to 
allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for 
meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 T&N Dec. 786 
(BIA 1994)(finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the 
Director's decision did not do so, we will withdraw it and remand the matter for further action and 
entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should review and consider each of the Petitioner's 
claims, and consider all of the evidence in the record, including the evidence submitted on motion and 
appeal. If after conducting this review the Director determines that additional evidence is needed, the 
Director issue either an RFE or notice of intent to deny. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 We note that our review of the Petitioner's response to the RFE is based upon a copy included in the Petitioner's appeal. 
On remand, the Director should ensure that the Petitioner's original response is incorporated into the record ofproceeding 
for reference in any further actions. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 23, 2024 In Re: 29405673 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data scientist in the artificial intelligence /machine learning (Al/ML) field, seeks 
classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a 
noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Petitioners may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this 
category if they demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and recognition of their 
achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than needed to warrant a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that, contrary to the Director's decision, he met two 
other evidentiary requirements : original, scholarly contributions in his field; and published material 
about him relating to his work in the field. 
The Petitioner must demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance of the 
evidence. See Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Exercising de novo 
appellate review, see Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015), we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence of published materials about him 
relating to his work in his field and original, scholarly contributions in the field. Nevertheless, we will 
withdraw part of the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements discussed above, USCIS must then make a 
final merits determination, considering whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing the noncitizen among the small 
percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 
2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Indian native and citizen, earned a doctorate in physics from 
a U.S. university and then worked for the school as a post-doctoral researcher in the AI/ML field. In 
that _____________role, he designed an algorithm to automate computations, collaborating with the I I 
.__ __, and another U.S. university. He also worked as a data science 
consultant with two U.S. start-up companies. At one firm, he built a health spending recommendation 
system. At the other, he built data analytic tools to forecast customer volumes at car wash businesses 
in different parts of the country. 
The record also shows that, between 2017 and 2020, scientific and academic journals published five 
research papers co-authored by the Petitioner. The papers primarily involve building theoretical 
models to study "singlet fission," a photochemical process, in organic solar cells. 
In January 2021, the Petitioner began working at a financial company as an applied AI/ML associate. 
He builds ML models based on natural language processing theory to increase efficiency and reduce 
risks in the operations of his employer's legal department. He also works on data governance and 
quality issues. He stated that he intends to continue working in the United States in the AI/ML field, 
specifically for financial organizations. 
The Petitioner has neither claimed nor demonstrated his receipt of a major, international recognized 
award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He must therefore meet at least three of the ten preliminary 
evidentiary requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his authorship of scholarly articles in his 
field and his performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii). The Director, however, found that he did not meet the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), or (ix). These criteria respectively require: 
published materials about him relating to his work in his field; evidence of his original scholarly 
1 If the regulatory standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable 
evidence to establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4). 
2 
contributions of major significance in the field; and proof of his commandment of a high salary in 
relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's finding regarding his salary. He has 
therefore effectively "waived" that issue. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). We will therefore consider 
only his contentions regarding original scholarly contributions of major significance and published 
materials about him. 
A. Published Materials 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished materials about the alien in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). USCIS should first determine whether published materials relate 
to the noncitizen and their specific work in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Agency should then determine whether publications qualify as 
professional, major trade, or major media publications. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of 12 research articles published in scientific journals from 2018 to 
2021, citing his work on singlet fission. The Director concluded that the articles do not meet the 
published materials criterion. The Director found that they do not mention the Petitioner by name and 
"only cite to the petitioner's work in furtherance of the individual authors' own publications, research, 
and conclusions." 
As the Petitioner contends on appeal, however, six of the research articles go beyond citing his work 
in footnotes. Rather, the bodies of these articles also refer to him by his last name and discuss his 
work. For example, one article states: "This assignment needs to be revised in view of the 
experimental work of [scientist #1] and the theoretical work of [the Petitioner] and [scientist #2]." The 
same article states: "The experimental work of [scientist #1] on the signature of the (TT) state has 
been verified independently by [the Petitioner] and [scientist #2]." 
Under USCIS policy, 
the person and the person's work need not be the only subject ofthe material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion ofthe person's 
work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the work may be considered 
material about the person relating to the person's work. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) (emphasis added). 
Under USCIS policy, research articles citing, naming, and discussing a petitioner and their work could 
meet the published articles criterion. But we agree with the Director that, in this case, the research 
articles submitted by the Petitioner do not discuss him and his work substantially enough to meet this 
criterion. The multi-page articles focus on the broader topic of singlet fission, containing -at most -
one or two paragraphs about the Petitioner and his work. Thus, we affirm the Director's decision that 
the Petitioner did not submit published materials meeting the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
3 
B. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). USCIS should first determine whether a noncitizen has made original 
contributions in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency should then 
determine whether any of them are of "major significance." Id. 
Evidence of significance may include proof that a noncitizen's published research has provoked 
widespread commentary from others in the field, or documentation that the research received a high 
number of citations compared to others' work in the field. Id. Detailed letters from experts in a field 
explaining the nature and significance of a noncitizen's contributions may also aid in evaluating 
contributions' importance, "particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the 
claimed significance." Id. 
As proof of original contributions of major significance, the Petitioner submitted letters from 11 other 
scientists and copies of the 12 published articles citing his work on singlet fission. The Director found 
that the letters do not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions have "major significance." The 
Director stated that none of the letters specify the significance of the Petitioner's contributions or 
analyze the impact they had on later work. The Director found that, while some letters discuss the 
"potential" of the Petitioner's research, they do not describe his work as having major significance. 
The Director stated: "It is clear from reading these letters, ... that the petitioner is a well-respected 
member of the field but none of the authors point to specific original contributions that have major 
significance in the field." 
As the Petitioner contends, however, many of the letters describe his work on singlet fission as 
important and discuss its implications. For example, a letter from a U.S. professor of electrical and 
computer engineering states that the Petitioner's "path-breaking work made it possible to accurately 
identify organic molecules that can be used in the fabrication of lower cost and highly efficient solar 
cell technology." Also, a U.S. physics professor stated: 
Due to his remarkable original contribution to this field, [the Petitioner] has gained 
widespread popularity and international acclaim in the scientific community, with 
~ublications such as [thell I 
L___J featuring him and his works. In addition, as an expert in the field, he has 
presented his findings in numerous conferences, both in the U.S. and outside. 
As the Petitioner farther argues, the Director overlooked the published articles citing the Petitioner 
and his research. Six of the 12 articles name the Petitioner in their bodies and explain how he used 
cutting-edge, numeric computations to disprove a long-held belief regarding singlet fission. Letters 
from other scientists state that this discovery could lead to cheaper and more efficient solar energy 
technology. Thus, contrary to the Director's decision and consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
we find that a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's original, scientific 
contributions of major significance. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner's contributions do not appear to meet the criterion because they are not 
"in the field [of extraordinary ability]." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). To qualify for the EB-1 
4 
category, a noncitizen must "seek[] to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability." Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. In his most recent jobs, the Petitioner has 
worked in the AI/ML field. He also stated his intent to continue working in the United States in that 
field, and he himself identifies his area of extraordinary ability as AI/ML. Thus, for purposes of 
adjudicating this petition, his applicable field of extraordinary ability is AI/ML. 
The Petitioner's original, scientific contributions, however, do not mention AI/ML. Rather, the 
research articles involve singlet fission in solar cells. Thus, the Petitioner's research appears to relate 
to photovoltaic cells or computational physics. He has not explained whether or how his research 
relates to AI/ML, his field of extraordinary ability. Further, although most ofthe letters from the other 
scientists mention the Petitioner's more recent work in AI/ML, the letters focus on his work in singlet 
fission and only briefly mention his activities in his field of extraordinary ability. 
Several federal courts have ruled that EB-1 petitioners must demonstrate extraordinary ability in the 
fields in which they would work, distinguishing playing a sport from coaching that sport. See, e.g., 
Mussarova v. Garland, 562 F. Supp. 3d 837, 844-45 (C.D. Cal. 2022); Integrity Gymnastics & Pure 
Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 131 F. Supp. 3d 721, 731 (S.D. Ohio 2015); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002). Similarly, the Petitioner's work in photovoltaic cells or 
computational physics is not in AI/ML and does not even appear connected to his field ofextraordinary 
ability. 
Because our proposed denial ground under this criterion differs from the Director's, we will withdraw 
the Director's findings. 
C. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
Similar to the two evidentiary criteria we have just reviewed, "evidence of the alien's authorship of 
scholarly articles" must also be "in the field [of extraordinary ability]." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's five published research articles meet this criterion. But, as 
previously discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his articles relate to AI/ML, his field of 
extraordinary ability. Thus, we will also withdraw the Director's findings under this criterion. 
The Petitioner did not receive prior notice ofour proposed denial grounds under the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(v) or (vi). Nor did he receive an opportunity to rebut our reasoning . We will 
therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should notify the Petitioner of our proposed denial grounds under the two 
evidentiary criteria. The notice should explain that he does not appear to have submitted published 
materials or evidence of original, scientific contributions in AI/ML, his field of extraordinary ability. 
If supported by the record, the Director may also inform the Petitioner of any other potential denial 
grounds. The Director, however, must afford him a reasonable opportunity to respond to all issues 
raised on remand. Upon receipt of a timely response, the Director should review the entire record and 
enter a new decision. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Director found, the Petitioner has not submitted 
published materials that substantially discuss 
him and his work. Also, because his evidence appears to fall outside his field of extraordinary ability, 
he has not provided proof of original contributions of major significance or authorship of scholarly 
articles. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn in part. The matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6084446 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 24, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a weightlifter, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an I I weightlifter. The record contains a letter from I I (New 
Jersey) Weightlifting Club, indicating that the Petitioner "is a full-time athlete in good standing enrolled 
in our elite athlete program, and is welcome to continue his involvement indefinitely." It is not clear from 
this letter whether the Petitioner is an employee of the club or a client taking classes there. The record 
indicates that"[ v ]olunteers ... maintain the facility," with no indication of how many paid employees (if 
any) work there. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to prizes and awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets four further 
evidentiary criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
the Petitioner meets two of the criteria (relating to prizes and to judging). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion. We agree, but we note 
that the Petitioner's evidence includes printouts from the website of the International Weightlifting 
Federation (IWF). The IWF printouts identify six events in which the Petitioner competed, including the 
following information: 
Year Event Rank 
2009 5 
2010 4 
2011 2 
2011 16 
2013 DSQ 
2015 DSQ 
2 
Printouts from the website of the International Wrestling Results Project show the results from 2013 and 
2014, with the Petitioner's results printed in a lighter color, and struck through (e.g.," "). This is a 
further indication that the Petitioner's disqualification invalidated his scores. 
The Petitioner states that he "became the winner of.__ ____ __, Tournaments in 2016-2017," but 
submits no documentary evidence to support this claim or to show that the claimed tournament prizes are 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
Letters and published articles in the record refer to the Petitioner's participation in the 2013 and 2015 
events, but not to the Petitioner's disqualifications and forfeiture of any medals or other prizes that the 
Petitioner may have won in those competitions. 1 Had this case proceeded to a final merits determination, 
we would have taken into consideration that the Petitioner apparently has not competed in IWF events, 
without disqualification, since 2011, six years before he filed the petition. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
j copy If an apparently unsigned letter attributed to thel I 
states that the Petitioner "became a member of thel !Team in 
2009," and that "[t]he criteria for membership for the beneficiary's level of membership in the team ... 
were demonstration of outstanding achievements in the field of weightlifting as judged by the nationally 
and internationally recognized experts in the field of weightlifting." Merely repeating the language of 
the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 
724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). The letter noted that an 
Olympic gold medalist is also a member, but this does not demonstrate or imply that members must 
reach a comparable level of achievement. 
The letter further stated: "We are unable to provide copies of the team's rules or organizational 
documents as these are not open to the public according to the Georgian law." The letter did not cite 
or identify any statute or regulation prohibiting disclosure of those materials. In immigration 
proceedings, the law of a foreign country is a question of fact which must be proven if a petitioner 
relies on it to establish eligibility for an immigration benefit. Matter of Annang, 14 I&N Dec. 502 
(BIA 1973). An unsigned letter referring to an unidentified law cannot meet the Petitioner's burden 
of proof. 
The letter from thel ldoes not identify the outstanding achievements that purportedly qualified the 
Petitioner for team membership. The letter lists various competitions that the Petitioner won and indicates 
that "he was also nominated to represent Georgia at the I I 
Championships," but all of these events occurred after 2009, when the Beneficiary was already a member 
of the I I. 
1 The record is inconsistent regarding the 2013 and 2015 competitions, variously indicating that the Beneficiary won bronze 
or silver medals. 
3 
We note that the letter attributed to thel l dated March 2017, mentions the Petitioner's participation 
in the 201 sl I Championships, but not his disqualification from that event. 
We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner has not established membership in any association 
that requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
To qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international 
distribution. 
In J I 2016, a profile of the Petitioner, calling him.__ ___________ ____.' appeared 
in Public Education. That publication circulates 3000 copies, with a "Target Audience [ consisting of] 
schools, higher education institutions, education professionals, [ and] readers interested in education." As 
described, Public Education is not a trade publication relating to weightlifting in particular or athletics in 
general. 
The Georgian sports newrpaper le/a interviewed the Petitioner on various occasions between 2009 and 
2017, and profiled him in 2016. Background information indicated that Lela has a circulation of 
between 2000 and 2500 copies. The Lela articles do not identify an author, as required by the plain 
language of this criterion; translations show a collective credit to the newspaper's editorial board, without 
identifying the board's members. 
Initially, the Petitioner cited Georgia's total 2017 population (3. 72 million), but did not provide circulation 
data for other Georgian publications to provide context or show the significance of the circulation figures 
for Lela and Public Education. On appeal, the Petitioner submits what he calls a "Market Research 
Survey" of "104 Georgian natives," indicating that nearly 80% of the respondents would be more likely 
to purchase Lela than other Georgian sports newspapers. 
The circumstances surrounding the survey are questionable. The survey results were compiled in 
November 2018, while the petition was pending and after the Director had first raised questions about 
Lela's status as major media. The survey was conducted via SurveyMonkey, a service that allows users 
to design and distribute customized online surveys; the record does not reveal who commissioned the 
survey or how the respondents were chosen. The survey, therefore, does not provide sufficient relevant 
data to establish that Lela is a major sports newspaper as claimed. 
The Petitioner also submits evidence that Lela has been published, under various names, since 1934, but 
the age of the publication is not relevant to its status as a major trade publication or other major media. 
4 
A study of Georgian media, also submitted on appeal, cites estimated circulation figures of"from 5,000 
to 12,000 copies" for"[ m ]ajor newspapers," and states: "Regional newspapers have lower circulation, at 
about 2,000 to 3,000." The cited circulation figures for Lela are on the lower end of the latter, smaller 
range. 
A translated online profile of Lela and its publisher states: "The online versions of the Lelo publications 
are being posted on sportall.ge (http://sportall.ambebi.ge/)."2 
Another article submitted on appeal reports competition results rather than focuses on the Petitioner, and 
several submitted articles are in Georgian without the English translations required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). Further, the submissions on appeal include articles from publications which the Petitioner 
has not shown to be professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
For all of the reasons described above, the Petitioner has not shown that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met the requirements of this criterion. We disagree. 
In separate letters, the president and general secretary ofthel I attested that the Petitioner had served 
as a referee at several specific national-level weightlifting tournaments, including serving as a "chief 
judge" or "chief referee" with responsibility to "adjudicate final results of a competition." This 
responsibility to decide the outcome of an event indicates a level of judging authority beyond simple 
enforcement of rules, and thus meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
2 We note that a search of that site for the Petitioner's surname, 'c==J" yields 12 results, none of them matching the articles 
submitted by the Petitioner. The only article that mentions the Petitioner, rather than another athlete with the same surname, 
does so in the context of a list of results rather than an a1ticle specifically about the Petitioner. 
3 We note that although some of the submitted articles postdate the Petitioner's disqualifications, none of them mention 
these significant events in his career as a weightlifter. Thus there is reason to question the provenance of those a11icles 
and the circumstances under which they were published. 
5 
The Petitioner cites letters, discussed above, indicating that he has won various competitions. A different 
criterion, however, already covers prizes and awards. To assert that evidence under one criterion (prizes) 
inherently satisfies another criterion (contributions) is to undermine the statutory requirement for 
extensive documentation. The record does not identify any original contributions that the Petitioner made 
while competing. 
Furthermore, as noted above, the Petitioner's most recent documented results from international 
competition have been stricken through disqualification. The submitted letters list the Petitioner's 2013 
and 2015 competitions, but do not acknowledge the disqualification of those results. The Petitioner does 
not explain how disqualified results could constitute contributions to his field. 
The head coach of the I I states that the Petitioner's "particular style and techniques" amount to 
contributions, but he provides no further details as to what those techniques are, or how they differ from 
other techniques used in the sport. He also does not say how those techniques have influenced the field; 
speculation that the Petitioner's "expertise ... will ... inspire others to compete in this challenging field" 
cannot establish major significance. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has made original contributions of major significance to his 
field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In his initial submission, the Petitioner asserts that he has played a leading or critical role for the I~--~ I I but he does not specify what that role was. Instead, the Petitioner refers to 
letters and background information about the team. The submitted letters do not indicate that the 
Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for the team or for any other entity. 
The Petitioner has not revisited this claim, either in response to a request for evidence or on appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not contested this finding on appeal, he has effectively abandoned it. 
See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011). 
B. Continued Work/Prospective Benefit 
As explained above, the evidence that the Petitioner has submitted does not establish eligibility for the 
benefit sought, and we will dismiss the appeal based on that evidence. But beyond the Director's 
decision, we note additional information that affects the Petitioner's ability both to continue working 
in the field, and to prospectively benefit the United States, as required under the Act. 
Because the record shows significant gaps in the Petitioner's competitive history, and two 
disqualifications in international competition, we consulted the IWF's website, identified in printouts 
that the Petitioner submitted. The "Sanctioned Athletes" page of that website4 shows that the Petitioner 
was suspended from international competition froml I 2013 tol I 2015, and again from 
4 https://www.iwf.nd~----~sanctions/ (visited Jan. 8, 2020). 
6 
~-~[ 2015 td I 2023, forl Jviolations. Further research revealed that the Court of Arbitration 
for Sport (CAS) indicated that the suspension included "the disqualification of results and the forfeiture 
of all medals, points and prizes."5 
Because the Petitioner has been suspended from international competition since 2013 ( except for less 
than a month inl 12015) and will not be eligible to compete internationally until 2023, questions 
necessarily arise as to how he will be able to compete at a high level and substantially benefit the United 
States. (The suspension would also impede the Petitioner's ability to sustain national or international 
acclaim in athletics, if the Petitioner had demonstrated such acclaim in the first place.) 
The Petitioner's omission of this highly significant and relevant information casts doubt on the credibility 
of not only his own assertions, but also every letter and media article written after the suspension was 
imposed, but which does not acknowledge that suspension. Withholding or concealing such information 
is not simply a matter of focusing on the most favorable information; rather, it borders on 
misrepresentation because it is essential to a proper understanding of the Petitioner's reputation and 
standing in his field. 
Any future filings by the Petitioner, such as a motion to reopen this proceeding or a petition to initiate a 
new one, must fully account for this information, and account for how his purported national or 
international acclaim has survived and overcome a major disciplinary action by the sport's international 
governing body. Any such filing must also explain why the Petitioner did not fully disclose a suspension 
that was in effect at the time of filing, and which remains in effect now and years into the future. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 The CAS decision is available at https://jurisprudence.tas-cas.org/Shared%20Documents~df (visited Jan. 8, 2020). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5565038 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 24, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cellist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The Director also found that the Petitioner had not shown that 
he is corning to the United States to continue working in the field. The Petitioner appealed that 
decision. 
On appeal, the Petitioner noted that the denial decision contained a number of inapplicable references 
to athletics, and that the Petitioner had documented upcoming work in the United States. The Director 
issued a revised decision which addressed these issues and raised additional points. Because the 
Petitioner's appeal predated these revisions, we allowed the Petitioner an additional 30 days to 
supplement the record and respond to the latest version of the decision. The record contains no 
response to this notice, and we consider the record to be complete as it now stands. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petition~r is a cej)jft. The Petitioner has studied at China'sb _______ .,,....,_ lof Music, the 
University of1._ ____ _.]the National Universit of and University. When he filed the 
petition, the Petitioner was studying a ~---~ onservatory. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to have met seven of those criteria: 
• (i), nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence; 
1 The Petitioner appears to have left the United States; on the appeal form, he provides an address in China. 
2 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), published material in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met five of the ten criteria: (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii), and (viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's findings regarding the other two criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied four of the five 
criteria that the Director granted. We disagree with the Director's remaining finding: 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication is sought. Such 
evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. To 
qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international distribution. 
In late 2017 and eary 2018, profiles of the Petitioner appeared in three provincial newspapers published 
inl . Submitted information indicates that one of these publications, Sichuan Daily, 
"rank[s] highest [in] circulation among provincial newspapers in China." An unspecified number of 
copies circulate in other countries, but the Petitioner did not show significant national or international 
distribution of what the record describes as a "provincial newspaper." 
In I 12017, the Pertioner wat one of two musicians interviewed on New York Lounge' a television 
talk show broadcast by.__ __ ___,· The Petitioner did not establish than I constitutes major 
media. Rather, it is a "Chinese-language TV station in the{ I area." The submitted 
information indicates that the program's viewership is predominantly local, and necessarily limited to 
viewers who speak Chinese. 
Other local media carried preview pieces, announcing then-upcoming shows by the Petitioner. One such 
preview appeared on an online platform that claims "readers from 181 countries," but the article about 
the Petitioner's! 12016 performance atl I had only 349 page views more than two 
years after that performance took place. 
Two preview pieces for that same I I 2016 performance appeared not in local media, but on biogs 
that aggregate content. One blog, Don411, includes news stories covering a variety of topics, while the 
other, Classical Candor, focuses on classical music. The Petitioner did not establish that either blog 
constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Furthermore, both pieces 
include identical language; in Classical Candor, the piece was specifically credited to an artist 
management and public relations agency. As such, the item is not a news article about the Petitioner, but 
rather a promotional press release. 
3 
The Petitioner established that The Straits Times is a major English-language newspaper in~I ---~ 
but the submitted article from that paper is not about the Petitioner. The 2010 review of an ensemble 
performance mentions the Petitioner only once, in the context of "a six-minute work for oboe and cello." 
To satisfy this criterion, an article must both ( 1) appear in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, and (2) be about the Petitioner. None of the submitted articles meet both of these 
requirements, and therefore the Petitioner has not satisfied this regulatory criterion. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
It is significant that the prizes the Petitioner has won are specifically for young or student musicians, for 
which the most highly acclaimed artists in the field were ineligible. The Director raised this point in the 
amended notice of decision, to which the record contains no response from the Petitioner. 
The same pattern is evident in other aspects of the record. Whilel O I is a prestigious and well­
known concert venue, the record shows that the Petitioner performed there in the venue's smallest concert 
space. The record includes a printout from I l's website, stating: "With 268 seats, the elegant, 
intimate! !Recital Hall is home each season to hundreds of recitals, chamber music concerts, panel 
discussions, and master classes. At many of these events, you're likely to find young musicians making 
thei~ I debuts." 
Likewise, the Petitioner served as principal cello for four conservatory or youth orchestras, including the 
~-~IPhilharmonia. These placements attest to the Petitioner's skill in relation to his fellow students, but 
youth and student orchestras, by definition, exclude the most experienced musicians who have completed 
their training. As such, the Petitioner's principal cello positions do not attest to his standing in the field 
as a whole. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
Musicians can achieve acclaim and reach the top of their field while they are still students, but the burden 
is on the Petitioner to show that he has reached the top of his entire field. As recently as November 2016, 
less than 19 months before the petition's filing date, the Petitioner performed at a gala produced by an 
organization "dedicated to discovering, presenting and supporting the most talented young musicians, 
helping them achieve their full potential to become tomorrow's great concert artists." 
The Petitioner's field comprises all cellists, not only student cellists or young cellists. Any evidence that 
limits comparison to students or young musicians is greatly diminished in weight, because such evidence 
excludes many of the most accomplished musicians in the Petitioner's field. (In his introductory 
statement, the Petitioner mentions I I a prominent cellist who was 62 years old at the time of 
filing.) The Petitioner seeks an employment-based immigrant classification, which demands comparison 
of the Petitioner to those who are employed in the field, rather than students who are preparing for entry 
into that field. 
By way of analogy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for immigrant 
classification as an alien of "extraordinary ability." See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994); 56 Fed. Reg. at 60899. The AAO notes that in Matter of Racine, 1995 WL 153319 at 
*1, *4 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), the Court stated, with reference to a hockey player: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is not 
a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of play; 
but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Crimson v. INS, 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
The Court's reasoning indicates that USCIS' interpretation of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) is 
reasonable. By this same reasoning, the Petitioner must show that he is a top cellist, rather than a top 
student or a top "young cellist." 
The Petitioner has not shown that any established symphony orchestras, comprised of working musicians 
rather than conservatory students, have sought to employ him, either as a principal or otherwise. The 
upcoming work in the United States (which the Director acknowledged in the revised decision) consisted 
of the following: 
• A recording session to produce 60 minutes of music for a documentary film; 
• Providing accompaniment to a pianist for a six-date concert tour; and 
• Providing accompaniment at a concert to mark the release of an album by another 
musician. 
5 
The Petitioner did not establish that any of these short-term projects reflected, resulted from, or 
contributed to acclaim in the field, or that the events themselves have a prominence indicative of the very 
top of the field. 3 
Individuals who have worked with the Petitioner in various capacities, including the president of~ I I and a pianist who has employed the Petitioner as a touring accompanist, praise the Petitioner's 
skill as a musician, with particular attention to his bow technique. The record does not show, however, 
that these abilities have earned the Petitioner significant recognition beyond those who have worked with 
him. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner was a highly accomplished student of the cello, developing 
a technique that impressed his teachers while also earning coveted opportunities both to study and to 
perform. Ultimately, however, the key test of eligibility is not promise, potential, or subjective 
evaluations of the Petitioner's talent. Rather, the Petitioner must show that, at the time of filing the 
petition, he has already earned sustained national or international acclaim and reached the very top of 
his field. As substantial as his student accomplishments may be, the Petitioner has not yet met this 
very high threshold. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. By way of 
comparison, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 By acknowledging that the Petitioner "provided paitial evidence in the form of upcoming engagements," the Director 
effectively withdrew the earlier finding that the Petitioner "has not provided any evidence" that he is coming to the United 
States to continue work in his field of expertise. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 19083537 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Date: JAN. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software developer and financial analyst, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he is the vice president of application development and a collateralized loan 
obligation (CLO) specialist atl I al I hedge fund for 
whom be currently works in H-IB nonimmigrant status. He previously worked as a sollware engineer 
at and as a programmer analyst and development database administrator for 
I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Petitioner also claims to have submitted comparable evidence beyond the regulatory criteria. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of these criteria, numbered (viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he has submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy the other five claimed criteria 
as well as comparable evidence. We will discuss these claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
The Petitioner initially cited his membership in th ______________ but he does 
not mention this membership on appeal. Therefore, we conclude that he has abandoned this claim. 1 
The appeal focuses on the Petitioner's title of "Chartered Financial Analyst" (CFA) from the CFA 
Institute. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the CF A Institute requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. We agree. 
The record shows that, while the CF A Institute has members, the Petitioner's CF A charter is not, itself, a 
membership in an association. Rather, it is a "credential" earned by "candidates who enroll in [a] 
program" and "appear for three stages of exams," each with a pass rate of around 50%; roughly 16% of 
enrollees earn the charter each year.2 Successful completion of what a CFA official calls a "professional 
licensing test," however difficult or rigorous, is not inherently an outstanding achievement. 
The Petitioner asserts: "Becoming a CF A Charterholder requires more than merely passing all three 
exams." But the other requirements -such as a bachelor's degree or near-completion of a baccalaureate 
program, or 4000 hours of work experience- are not outstanding achievements either. 
Materials in the record indicate that "[m]ore than 100,000 people take the test ... every year," meaning 
that, even with the claimed completion rate of around 16%, more than 16,000 people earn CF A charters 
every year. The president and chief executive officer of the CF A Institute states: "We have 
approximately 170,000 Charter Holders today." The Petitioner has not established that these figures are 
consistent with the exclusivity that the regulation requires. The Institute's president does not assert that 
recognized national or international experts judge applicants' achievements. 
The Petitioner has not established that his CF A charter constitutes a qualifying membership. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that the Director "erred in discounting the Petitioner's receipt of awards 
including the CFA Charter, as well as the Options Award for 'Outstanding Achievement by a Loan 
Specialty Technologist in the CLO Space,' a 'Certificate of Excellence' from Microsoft, and a '5-Year 
Milestone' award from the CFA Institute." The Petitioner does not elaborate as to how the Director erred 
with regard to these claimed awards. The general assertion that the Director erred does not identify any 
specific error oflaw or fact as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). 3 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'yGen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 An article in the record indicates that "somewhere between 10% and 20% of candidates who sign up for the exam end 
up not showing up for the test." The article does not specify whether the pass rates take those figures into account. 
3 See also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F .2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references 
to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
3 
The only claimed award for which the Petitioner offers substantive and specific discussion on appeal is 
his CF A charter, discussed above. He contends that the charter is so rigorous and coveted that it 
constitutes an award as well as a membership. The Petitioner asserts that "CF A examinations are 
considered to be one of the toughest exams to pass," and that "CFAA charter holders [are] more sought 
after by wealth management firms due to their investment specific niche knowledge and skills." The 
Petitioner has not established that an occupational credential, earned by passing an examination, 
constitutes a prize or award for excellence. Furthermore, the record shows that thousands of individuals 
pass the exam, and thereby earn the charter, every year. (Articles in the record compare the CF A charter 
to a master's degree, which is a mark of expertise and achievement, but not inherently a prize or award.) 
The Petitioner has not shown that the conveyance of these charters attracts national or international 
recognition. (The regulation requires recognition of the award itself; the reputation of the awarding entity 
does not establish that recognition.) 
The Petitioner has not established that his CF A charter is a nationally or internationally recognized award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner participated in a panel discussion at what he deems a "prestigious industry conference." 
He contends that media coverage of this conference satisfies this regulatory criterion, and also that his 
participation is, itself,comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4). He does not establish how this 
presentation is comparable to any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) that do not readily 
apply to his occupation. The Petitioner submits no evidence to support his claim that his invitation to 
participate in that panel is "recognition of his prestige in the industry." His very presence at the event 
does not warrant such an inference. As noted above, the burden of proof is on the Petitioner. The 
assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 
1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). A press release in the 
record shows that the Petitioner's employer is a client of the organization that held the conference. 
The claimed published material is in the form of a blog post on the conference organizer's website. The 
Petitioner does not submit evidence to show that this blog qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. 
Furthermore, the blog post is not published material about the Petitioner, as the regulation requires. 
Instead, the blog post is about "alternative data" and "a panel discussion on the topic" at the 
aforementioned conference. The Petitioner's name appears only once in the post, in a sentence naming 
all the panel members, and there is no other recognizable reference to the Petitioner's work in particular. 
The submitted printout of a blog post does not satisfy the requirements of the regulation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
4 
The Petitioner asserts that his $150,000 annual salary meets this criterion. The Director initially stated, 
in a request for evidence, that the Petitioner meets the criterion, but the Director retracted this 
determination in the denial notice. In denying the petition, the Director stated that the Petitioner did not 
document his salary, but this assertion is incorrect. The record contains tax documents showing that I paid the Beneficiary $158,329 in 2018 and $158,898 in 2019. Payroll receipts from late 2019 
show a base salary of $150,000 per year. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner's identification of the above errors by the Director is not dispositive. The 
regulation requires comparison of the Petitioner's compensation to others in the field. The Petitioner 
submits salary statistics for software developers, such as Department of Labor data indicating that the 
Level 4 wage for "Software Developers, Applications" in thel I metropolitan area is $137,426 
per year. In this respect, the Petitioner clearly represents his "field" as that of a software developer. 
But the record does not consistently portray the Petitioner simply as a software developer. In this respect, 
it is significant that the Petitioner heavily emphasizes his title as a chartered financial analyst, contending 
that this title alone suffices to satisfy two of the regulatory criteria. The record does not indicate, and the 
Petitioner does not expressly claim, that the job titles "financial analyst" and "software developer" are 
largely interchangeable. Rather, an article about the CF A exam indicates that it "covers topics ranging 
from ethics and professional standards, to quantitative methods, economics, financial reporting and 
analysis, corporate finance, equity investments, derivatives, alternate investments, portfolio management, 
and wealth planning." The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to provide a basis for 
comparing his salary to that of other individuals with the duties of not only a software developer, but also 
of a chartered financial analyst. We also cannot ignore that the Petitioner describes himself as the vice 
president of a hedge fund and a CLO specialist. The Petitioner has not established that, or explained why, 
salary information for software developers is the appropriate metric for comparing his compensation to 
that of others in the same field. 
The above discussion shows that the Petitioner did not meet four of the six claimed criteria ( or provide 
comparable evidence). Therefore, the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining one claimed criterion, 
relating to original contributions of major significance, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 Likewise, we need not revisit the criterion granted by the Director, 
relating to performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). When considering the 
broader question of acclaim, the Petitioner states that his contributions are "proprietary technology, 
and hedge funds do not share their proprietary information." This assertion inherently argues against 
the conclusion that his work has earned him recognition not just from his employer, but throughout 
the field. The Petitioner has documented a measure of success in his field, but he has not shown the 
widespread national or international recognition that the statute and regulations demand. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 15236626 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Date: JAN. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a wood carving craftsman, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a wood carving craftsman, specializes in the field of woodcarving. 
He claims that he has worked as a wood craftsman and has displayed his works at numerous venues 
and exhibitions. 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner's initial Form 1-140 indicated he was applying for a national interest waiver as a 
member of the professions holding an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability. 1 See 
the Act section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2). The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) 
noting the table of contents and submitted evidence indicated the Petitioner sought classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability rather than an individual of exceptional ability and therefore would 
consider the petition as a request for an individual of extraordinary ability. The RFE requested additional 
evidence to determine if the Petition met seven of the ten criteria for an individual of extraordinary ability 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner responded to the RFE with a letter from counsel 
stating the Petitioner "is an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of_____ 
woodcarving, who has demonstrated that he has sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. Additionally, he submitted more 
evidence for consideration as an individual of extraordinary ability and did not contest the Director's 
decision to proceed with an analysis of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director denied the petition, noting that he considered the Petitioner's initial request to seek 
classification as an alien of exceptional ability to be a clerical error and found the Petitioner did not 
meet the criteria for an individual of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter 
from counsel indicating he now wishes to be classified as "an individual of exceptional ability in 
accordance with section 203(b)(2) of the Act ... and/or as an individual with extraordinary ability in 
accordance with section 203(b)(l) of the Act." We are unable to consider both visa preference 
1 In the initial 1-140, the Petitioner checked box 1.h in Part 2, Petition Type, indicating he was applying for a national 
interest waiver as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability. 
2 
categories as the Petitioner must file a separate Form 1-140 for each requested visa category and pay 
the required fee for each submitted Form 1-140, which the Petitioner has not done in this case.2 
Additionally, a petitioner may not raise a previously unclaimed eligibility criterion for the first time 
on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Cf Matter of Jimenez, 21 I&N 
Dec. 567, 570 n.2 (BIA 1996) (finding that claims of eligibility for a waiver presented for the first 
time on appeal are not properly before the Board of Immigration Appeals and that the Board will not 
issue a determination on the matter). If the petitioner had wanted those claims to be considered, he 
should have presented those claims and submitted evidence pertaining to those claims with the 
petition. 
We will therefore only consider whether the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria for recognition as an 
individual of extraordinary ability as that is the visa category to which the Petitioner submitted 
evidence during his initial petition as well as in response to the Director's RFE. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that he met seven of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser Awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria pertammg to 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
meets the additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we concur with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria related to participation as a judge. 
However, the record does not reflect that he has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
2 Petition Filing and Processing Procedures for Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, If You Want USCIS to 
Consider Multiple Visa Categories for a Beneficia1y, located at: https://www.uscis.gov/forms/all-forms/petition-filing­
and-processing-procedures- for-form-i-140-immigrant-petition- for-alien-worker. 
3 
The Petitioner claims that he has received numerous awards for excellence in his field. While the 
Director acknowledged his submissions of documentation establishing his receipt of numerous 
awards, he determined that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the referenced awards were 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous, noting that the letters and 
documentation submitted in support of the petition establish the national and international recognition 
of the awards beyond the awarding entities. For example, the Petitioner asserts that his selection for 
the UNESCO Seal of Excellence required him to meet a rigorous selection criteria, as explained in 
documentation from UNESCO. He further asserts that his receipt of two "Best Craftsman of the Year" 
awards in 2012 and 2015 froml I competitions in I I constitutes a nationally 
recognized award as recognition of his craftsmanship In support of his assertion, the Petitioner 
provided UzDaily online articles announcing the 2015 competition would be taking place 
as well as the announcement of the winners from the 2015 competition. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's decision. While the record indicates the Petitioner received 
the UNESCO Seal of Excellence it does not establish that this constitutes an award that is nationally 
or internationally recognized. A prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition 
from the competition in which it is awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued 
the award. Rather, the national and international recognition results through the awareness of the 
accolade in the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident 
through specific means; for example but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation indicating that his receipt of this award was 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
Additionally, the Petitioner submitted evidence alleging he received two awards for Best Craftsman 
of the Year fromI I competitions I in 2012 and 2015. However, the media article submitted 
regarding the 2015 competition does not list the Petitioner as an award winner from the 
competition but instead lists another participate as earning the Best Craftsman award. When the record 
includes inconsistent evidence, "it is incumbent upon the [P]etitioner to resolve the inconsistencies by 
independent objective evidence" and that "[aa ]ttempts to explain or reconcile the conflicting accounts, 
absent competent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies, will not suffice." See 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner's submission of a certificate 
indicating he was awarded Best Craftsman of the Year during the 20151 I does little to clarify 
whether it was the Petitioner or the other individual listed in the article that won Best Craftsman of the 
Year. As such, the Petitioner has not shown that he earned an award in 2015. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any documentation indicating his receipt of the 2012 award was nationally 
or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence indicating these awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized. While the above materials, and others in the record, 3 confirm the Petitioner's receipt of 
various awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 4 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
4 
The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the wood craftsman field, as required. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed his membership in I I the Association of Artisans, 
Craftsmen, and Folkists ofl I After reviewing the Petitioner's 
material, the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because 
he did not establish that the associations required outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership or that admittance was determined by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. Specifically, the Director determined that while the record contained letters 
from individuals discussing the membership requirements for the association, they were not 
supported by corroborating evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the support 
letters previously submitted by association members demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established 
that his claimed association requires outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. For 
example, the Petitioner presented evidence that he was a member ofl I and relied on 
a letter from the unidentified head of I Regional Department of I I, who 
outlined the requirements the Petitioner met for membership. 5 While the author of the letter 
stated the I !Association requires outstanding achievement of its members, as judge 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of Folk Arts," no 
independent documentation to support these assertions was submitted. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. See 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), c~ffd, 905 F. 2d 41 
(2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). A letter 
from CEO of I I indicated the association covered 13 
departments and 157 divisions with 15,000 craftsmen as members. However, the letter does 
not describe the requirements of membership inl I 
While the referenced letters confirm the Petitioner's claimed memberships in the above­
referenced association, along with their missions, he failed to submit evidence of the 
membership requirements for these associations. The record lacks documentation, such as 
bylaws, membership requirements, or other appropriate evidence, establishing that the 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
5 The name of the author of the letter was not translated or otherwise identified in the record. 
5 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or field. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfies 
the regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted an undated article titled I !written by 7The article offers a brief biography of the Petitioner as well 
as his background in wood carving but does not indicate where the article was published. The Petitioner 
submitted a letter, dated October 2018, from I the I I of Buxoroyi Shifokori, which, 
I asserts I the Petitioner published an article, titled 
in Buxoroyi Sh#fokori about rug weaving in Uzbekistan, and claims the Petitioner's s 
expertise lies in oriental rugs. The letter concludes that the Petitioner has published an article in Buxoroyi 
Shifokori regarding the art of wood carving titled
which appeared in the paper onl 12017, and was edited by In res onse to the . 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter dated April 16, 2020, from____ the
I ofBuxorovi Shifokori which states I I I edited an article about the Petitioner titled 
e The letter claims the article describes the Petitioner's "novel 
decorations of customary workmanship" and indicates Buxoroyi Shifokori is a weekly "Wednesday 
newspaper supplement" dedicated to fashion, living, beauty, etc. and is published on a weekly or monthly 
basis. 
Here, we find the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that the published material about him appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The first letter from the publisher has 
little probative value as it described a separate article published by the Petitioner about rug weaving, 
which is unrelated to the Petitioner's work in the wood working field, while giving no information about 
Buxoroyi Sh#fokori's status as a professional or major trade publication or other media. Additionally, the 
second letter from the publisher described Buxorovi Sh[fokori as a weekly newspaper supplement but 
provided no documentation indicating Buxorovi Shifokori is a professional or major trade publication or 
has a significant national or international distribution that would indicate it would qualify as major media. 
We also find that the Petitioner has not provided the published item's title, date, and author. Here, the 
record contains inconsistencies regarding the title of the published item. The title appearing in the copy 
of the published item submitted with the original petition differs significantly from the titles listed in the 
6 Although the Director specifically requested documentation such as the relevant sections of the bylaws and constitutions 
to demonstrate the membership requirements of the respective organizations and associations, the Petitioner declined to 
submit such evidence. As the record does not contain official documentation of the associations' membership criteria, we 
cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's memberships are qualifying. Failure to submit requested evidence which 
precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
7 The translation of the article did not include a date of publication or indicate where the article was published . I __ 
name appeared at the bottom of the translated article but no other authors were identified. 
6 
two letters fro of Buxoroyi Shifokori. Additionally, the copy of the published item attributes as as the author while the letters from the publisher indicated the Petitioner authored the 
article himselfwhild was the editor. The record contains inconsistent documentation 
relating to the title and author of the published item, which must be resolved with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). The record does not contain any independent, objective evidence that clarifies the title of the 
published item or the name of the author. 
In light of the above, the evidence discussed above does not meet the plain language requirements for this 
criterion, set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends that his ability to revive 
I I methods to make woodworking more sustainable, his "rethinking and creative 
modification" of woodcarving styles, along with several reference letters 
commenting on these achievements, demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his wood working through recommendation letters praising him for his works, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the 
letters recount the Petitioner's achievements in wood working but do not demonstrate that his 
contributions in the field of wood working have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director's discounting of the numerous opinion letters he submitted was 
erroneous. Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner rovided a letter from director of 
that stated the Petitioner had a "huge impact on
_ craftsmanship." __ claimed the Petitioner is an "internationally acclaimed artist and 
master of decorative and architectural wood carving" as well as the "[ w ]inner of the coveted title of 
International Wood Carver of the Year, awarded by thel I The letter from I I also alleges the Petitioner "produced treasures that grace royal palaces and architecture of all 
kinds." 
Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more 
or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held 
that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
7 
22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only 
encourage , but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where 
available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity , detail, or credibility, there is a greater need 
for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence . Matter o(Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Here, the letter from I does not appear credible asI does not mention how he became 
familiar with the Petitioner's work and the assertions made regarding the Petitioner's award of 
International Wood Carver of the Year as well as having his products displayed in royal palaces are 
not corroborated by independent evidence in the record. The record does not include evidence of, or 
mention of, an International Wood Carver award. Additionally , the record does not mention the 
Petitioner's work being displayed in royal palaces as the documentation of the Petitioner's work 
product in the record only includes a business card and unattributed pictures of the Petitioner sitting 
in front of a display of finished wood working crafts as well as pictures purporting to be wood working 
products completed by the Petitioner. 
The letters from the Petitioner 's business colleagues.I I and I indicate 
the Petitioner uses the highest quality materials and creates outstanding wood carvings. However , the 
letters do not provide specific examples of the Petitioner 's contributions to wood carving or how his 
contributions influenced the wood carving field. Vague, solicited letters from local colleagues that do 
not specifically identify contributions or provide specific examples of how those contributions 
influenced the field are insufficient.9 Although the Petitioner's colleagues recognize the Petitioner's 
talent, they do not describe the Petitioner 's accomplishments with specificity or provide a nexus 
between his talents and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major significance 
in his field. 
Similarly, the letters froml from the __________ andI I froml indicate the Petitioner is very talented in his field but do not specifically 
identify his contributions or indicate how they influenced his field. For example, ! I stated 
the Petitioner has an "innovative nature and is an accomplished ace" who has been "highlighted in 
both neighborhood and national magazines and books." I I stated the Petitioner is a "regarded 
master of his work" who "adorns his artful culmination with splendidly and uncommon completed 
points of interest." While these letters include high praise for the Petitioner, they do not contain 
enough specificity regarding the Petitioner's contributions to wood working or how these 
contributions influenced his field. Additionally ,! • I claimed that the Petitioner's use of 
"animal like structures" is an impressive contribution, however it must be demonstrated that such 
contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the level of contributions of major 
significance, the Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on similar wood carvers and 
similar works of wood carvings. Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the 
field as a whole). Although I recognizes the Petitioner's use of animal like structures as an 
9 Officers should take into account the probative analysis that experts in the field may provide in opinion letters regarding 
the significance of the person's contributions in order to assist in giving an assessment of the person's original contributions 
of major significance. That said, not all expert letters provide such analysis. Letters that specifically articulate how the 
person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that 
lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy­
manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 
accomplishment, he does not provide the nexus between the Petitioner's talents and the manner in 
which he has made original contributions of major significance in his field 
The remaining letters ertainin to the Petitioner's work appear to have little probative value. The 
letter from the CEO o appears to reference a different individual 
who is an expert in ceramics. The letter from___ member of the Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry I I appears to include boilerplate language similar to other documents in the 
record. As a general concept, when an alien has provided affidavits from different persons that 
contribute to the alien's eligibility claim, but the language and structure contained within the affidavits 
is strikingly similar, the trier of fact may treat those similarities as a basis for questioning the claims 
of the alien. See Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006). 
When affidavits contain such similarities , it is reasonable to infer that the alien who submitted the 
strikingly similar documents is the actual source from where the suspicious similarities derive. See 
Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007). The letter from l I 
indicates the Petitioner's talents have "been recognized by local people and foreign citizens" but then 
states the Petitioner was "the lead rug weaver." As mentioned above, the letter froml I the I lof Buxoroyi Shifokori, includes an irrelevant section claiming the Petitioner published articles 
about rug weaving. These mentions to rug weaving have a striking similarity and appear to serve no 
purpose in explaining the Petitioner 's talents in wood carving but bring into question the validity of these 
letters. 
While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of his work, the record does not show 
how his wood carvings have had a majorly significant impact in the field, have significantly influenced 
the work of other wood carvers, or otherwise equate to original artistic contributions of major 
significance in the field. The authors' assertions do not explain how the Petitioner's wood carving 
techniques and products have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field. Simply 
stating that the work has gained the Petitioner national and international recognition or that it has 
majorly impacted the field of wood carving is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining his 
accomplishments and their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the 
Petitioner 's wood carving has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 10 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on several of our non-precedent decision as well as Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994) in support of the assertion that the Director should have accepted 
the expert opinion letters as evidence. Specifically, the Petitioner states that the court in Buletini "held 
that expert statements respecting the Petitioner's contributions must be fully considered, even if the 
expert opinions came from people who knew or had worked with the Beneficiary. " Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1232. Regarding the contributions criterion, the Buletini court was referring to the 
Director's failure to consider all the forms of evidence that the Petitioner in that case submitted such 
as the book he authored, the Petitioner's medical dictionary he authored, and the Petitioner's study 
that appeared in the largest circulation newspaper in the Petitioner's home nation. Id. at 1232-1233. 
These are forms of evidence that the Buletini court determined the Director had failed to consider; the 
court did not indicate that the Director was required to discuss each and every piece of evidence within 
the record. Here, we have considered the letters and find them insufficient to establish eligibility for 
10 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 
the criterion because they do not discuss the impact of the Petitioner's work and show that it has been 
of major significance to the field, as required by the plain language of the regulation. Moreover, 
although the Petitioner references non-precedent decisions by our office, these decisions were not 
published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, the Petitioner's appellate brief argues he has significantly impacted the field by making wood 
carving "more sustainable" as well as by "rethinking and creative modification ofl I 
woodcarving styles." Counsel also argues the Petitioner is one of the few "masters of woodcarving in I I who work in three-dimensional style, in which he uses various stones, miniatures, and 
engraves." The unsupported statements of counsel on appeal or in a motion are not evidence and thus 
are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. See INS v. Phinpathya, 464 U.S. 183, 188-89 n.6 (1984). 
The assertions made in his appellate brief are not supported by the expert testimony or other documents 
in the record and therefore are not entitled to any evidentiary weight in determining if the Petitioner 
has made contributions of major significance to his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively , the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), a petitioner must establish that 
they have authored scholarly articles in the field and the publication qualifies as a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or other major media. 11 Upon review of the record, we concur 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner argues he has written scholarly articles in the form of an article titled I ___ I I" dated 2016, a 2013 non-fictional book titled I" as well as a collection 
of articles titled As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly 
article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a 
researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. 
In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes , or a bibliography , and may include graphs, charts, 
videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. For other fields, a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship") . 12 Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated he has written scholarly articles. His'----------" 
article is a half-page, five paragraph summary of the history of wood carving published in the Bukhara 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix , https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
12 See Webster's II New College Dictionary (3rd ed. 2005). 
Mavjlari magazine. The article offers a basic lesson on the history of wood carving that gives no 
indication that it was written for learned persons in the wood carving field. The Petitioner's book, 
is described in the record through a book review written by I The 
review indicates the book is "an absolutely first-rate book for beginners in wood sculpture, well 
thought out and well executed." Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his article or book are 
scholarly articles as they appear to be written for a general readership or amateur wood carvers rather 
than learned individuals. 
The Petitioner also claims he published a scholarly article in
______ 2017. The article, titled is a three-
page history of the development of wood working and historical methods of wood working. While 
the article includes a bibliography citing two books dealing with ancient cultures of the Near East, the 
article does not appear to report on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. The 
record also does not contain any evidence that indicates this article was written for learned persons in 
the field rather than a history lesson for the general public or amateur wood carvers. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not provided any information demonstrating the publishers of his articles 
and book are professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner did not 
provide any additional information on the Bukhoro Mavjlari magazine, his book publisher, or the 
that would indicate they are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that he has authored scholarly articles 
in the field and the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other 
major media. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), a petitioner must establish 
that the display work is his work product and the venues where the individuals work was displayed 
were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 13 Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner indicates he displayed his wood carvings at the following venues: 
• Central Asia Crafts Art Fair, 12013; 
• Tashabbus-2015j 2015; • I I regional stage of Tashabbus-2015, 2015; 
• Country Folks Crafts Show, 2017; • I I Folk Art Market 2017; 
• Renegade Craft, 2018; 
• Cultural Survival Bazaar, 2017; and 
13 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
11 
• Souvenir and Resort Gift Show, 2019. 
First, we note that the !souvenir and Resort Gift Show took place from I I 2019, 
after the Petitioner filed his Form 1-140 on March 11, 2019. Eligibility must be established at the time 
of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 
1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a 
new set of facts. Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). Since this gift show took 
place after the time of filing, it cannot serve to establish eligibility under this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases as 
he has not submitted evidence that his work was actually displayed or that the displayed work was his 
work product. As proof of the display of his work, the Petitioner offers various diplomas and 
certificates. However, these diplomas and certificates provide limited probative value in showing his 
work was displayed. For example, the diploma for the I • I simply states it is a "certificate" but 
does not indicate the certificate was presented for the Petitioner's display of his work at an artistic 
exhibition. Similarly, the diplomas from Tashabbus-2015 indicate the Petitioner was entered into a 
talent contest but does not otherwise indicate the Petitioner displayed his work at an artistic exhibition. 
The Petitioner also received a certificate of appreciation from thel I Folk Art Market, a 
certificate of attendance at the Renegade Craft, and a certificate of participation at the Cultural Survival 
Bazaar. However, the record does not include any evidence that indicates that these certificates show 
the Petitioner displayed his work at an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I owner and president of the I ______ 
Craft Shows indicated the Petitioner, along with I I participated in the craft show. The 
letter stated the Petitioner displayed and presented his products in an attractive and professional 
manner and his presence at the show "enabled show attendees to communicate directly with him about 
I Is beautiful hand made lfolk art creations." While this letter provides details 
indicating the Petitioner participated in the craft show and displayed products, it does not show that 
the Petitioner displayed his own work product. The letter does not describe the Petitioner's 
relationship to I I or whether he was displaying I products or his own. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that the display work is his work product 
and the venues where the individuals work was displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
12 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
·MATTER OF D-A-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION ' Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an international relations· scholar and co1sultant, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their" extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose . achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Texas Service Center approved the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker. 
However, the Director of the Texas Service Center subsequently issued a notice of intent to revoke 
and later revoked the approval of the immigrant petition, finding that U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) had approved the .petition iri error. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. · 
On. appeal, the Petitioner offers additional documentation, as well as previously submitted 
documentation, and a brief, contending that he meets at least three of the ten criteria and qualifies as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
The Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition ... ·.''. Section 205 of the .Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. By 
regulation this revocc).tion authority is delegated to any USCIS officer who i,s authorized to approve 
an immigrant visa petition. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(a). USCIS must giv,e the petitioner notice of its intent 
to revoke the prior approval of the petition and the opportunity to submit evidence in opposition 
thereto, before proceeding with written notice of revocation. See1 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and (c). The 
Board oflmmigration Appeals has discussed revocations on notice as follows: 
[A] notice of intention to revoke a visa petition is properly issued for "good and 
sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time the notice is issued, if 
• Matter of D-A-
I unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa petition based upon 
the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to revoke will be 
sustained where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, including 
any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of 
intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 1 
( 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been. demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclc:1im and whose achievements have • been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation,. 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must prnvide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 c:F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaiQ1 and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R!jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance; probative value, and credibility, both individually 
1 Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter c?f Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 1987)). 
2 
.
Matter of D-A-
and within the context ·of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not. indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the. alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In revoking the approval of the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner 
did not meet any of the initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills 
the four criteria discussed below and requests that we consider additional documentation as 
comparable evidence for the artistic display criterion at. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii).2 We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in assoczatwns in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements <~{their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in_ their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presents documentation indicating his selection for 
jobs as a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the a Scholar-in-Residence at 
and a Visiting Fellow at the __ As supporting 
evidence, he submits job postings for a "Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy" position at the 
and a "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" position at The 
Petitioner states that "these institutions are distinguished research and academic institutions which 
have highly discerning processes for selecting these roles and the people making the selections are 
recognized experts in their own rightt 
\ 
While the Petitioner emphasizes the distinguished reputation of the above organizations, the record 
does not demonstrate that his selection for employment in the aforementioned jobs constitutes his 
"membership in associations in the field." Submission of documentary evidence reflecting. a 
petitioner's employment or involvement with a particular organization without evidence showing 
that the petitioner is a member of an association that requires. outstanding achievements of its 
members , as judged by recognized national or international experts, is insufficient to· meet the 
requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner's unsupported assertions that his employment in the 
2 The Oirector detennined that the Petitioner's evidence did not m~et the published· material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because the submitted material (including , for instance, documentation of his appearances on CNN and 
Al Jazeera) was not about him. The Petitioner does not contest that determination on appeal. Instead, the Petitioner 
asserts on appeal that the submitted media covernge should be evaluated as comparable evidence .under the regulation at 
8CF.R. § 204.5(h)(4) . · 
.
Matter of D-A-
noted roles should be evaluated as "memberships" are not persuasive and are inconsistent with the 
regulations. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
We further note that the record does not sufficiently document that the above organizations' job 
requirements for his particular positions rise to the level of outstanding achievements. With respect 
· to the Petitioner's employment at a March 2018 letter from 
Director of the identifies the Petitioner as 
a "Scholar-in-Residence" rather than a "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" ( e!11phasis added). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown that the "Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence" job 
. announcement is an accurate representation of the selection requirements for his position. Similarly, 
the Resident "Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy" fulltime perm~nent job announceme.nt from the 
is not specific to the Petitioner's part-time Nonresident Senior Fellow positiqn. 
The record also includes a March 2018 letter from a Senior Fellow at the 
asserting that his organization's "Visiting Fellow program is highly discerning'' 
and that "Visi_ting Fellows are selected based on their outstanding achievements in their specific area 
of expertise." Similarly, a March 2018 letter from Executive Vice President at the 
contends that his organization's "Nonresident Senior Fellows are carefully 
selected by leadership as well as our in-house experts in the field, based on their outstanding 
achievements as policy analysts or scholars in the field." The aforementioned letters from 
and do not list their organizations' specific requirements or further elaborate on 
the job selection criteria. Repeating the language of the regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's 
burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a_ff'd, 905 
F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates. Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Finally, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that job applicants' 
achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts. · 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly, artistic. athletic. or business­
relatedcontributions of ma_jor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner provided various letters of support and 
documentation relating to his published work and several conferences and speaking engagements in 
which he participated. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made contributions that were original but that they have been of major signific;mce in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of ·support 
from experts in the field were insufficient to meet this criterion. The Petitioner provides additional 
4 
.
Matter of D-A-· 
support letters and contends that he has "provided expert policy analysis and advice to U.S. 
policymakers with regard to U.S.-Israel-Middle East relations, impacted the policy outcomes, and 
contributed to the· theoretical and strategic framework for critical bilateral and multilateral 
agreements such as the July 2015 Iran Nuclear Deal." ' In addition, he presents documentation 
relating to bilateral and multilateral peace agreements and other programs in which he maintains he 
was involved.3 
With respect to the Petitioner's letters of support, the Director explained that "USCIS may, in its 
discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony," but noted that 
"USCIS is ultima~ely responsible for making the final determination regarding an alien's eligibility." 
See Matter of <;aron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). A.s a result, we evaluate the 
content of letters to determine whether they support his eligibility. See id. at 795-96; see also Matter 
of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008) (noting that expert opinion testimony does not purport to 
be evidence as to "fact"). Here, the record includes letters from notable experts in international 
relations attesting to the Petitioner's involvement as a government official or consultant in various 
international agreements and his status as an influential authority in matters of policy. However, as 
discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific "original contributions" 
that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
With respect to the Petitioner's work as a U.S.-Middle East relations strategist and scholar, the 
record includes a letter of support from Distinguished Fellow and 
Counselor at the for Near East Policy, stating that the Petitioner has influenced 
"policy makers, companies and individuals with interests in the Middle East." indicates 
that "[t]he ongoing crises in the Middle East pose many challenges for the United States" and that 
the Petitioner "has successfully shaped policies in order to achieve stability in the region." 
, however, does not identify -specific U.S. or Israeli policies the Petitioner is credited with 
shaping or provide specific examples of how his particular work furthered stability in the Middle 
East or otherwise rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In his February 2017 letter of support, 
During the time that I served 
at the at Executive Director for Research at the 
4 states: 
and [the Petitioner] was the 
[2009-2012], we 
.3 This documentation includes "Declaration of Principles " ( 1993), ''.Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty" ( 1994), "Wye River 
Memorandum " (1998), information about the "Builders for Peace" program ( 1990s), "Me1norandum of Understanding 
Between Israel and the United States" (2007), "Israeli-Palestinian lnteriin Agree1ilent" ( I 995), and information about the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Ac.tion -Iran Nuclear Deal (2015), The aforementioned documents do not mention the 
Petitioner or demonstrate the significance of his specific involvement 
4 From 2009 until 2013, "served as 
During much of ___ service, the Petitioner worked as 
__, from 2009 until 2012, I · 
5 
.
.Matter of D-A-
frequently consulted on diplomatic strategies to achieve a solution to the Iranian 
nuclear threat. [The Petitioner] was a strong advocate for reaching a deal with Iran 
because failing to do so would lead to devastating outcomes .... [The Petitioner] has 
consistently communicated to the policy community that a military campaign 
·· involving the United States, ~srael or the Gulf States would be counterproductive 
because it would draw the ire of the international community and bestow Iran with 
legitimacy to pursue a nuclear weapon. 
March 2018 letter further contends that the Petitioner's "advice was well received and 
ultimately taken by U.S. policy makers including myself, laying the groundwork for and ultimately 
contributing to the United States' nuclear agreement with Iran in July 2015. This multilateral 
agreement restricted the growth of Iran's nuclear capabilities in exchange for lifting certain 
sanctions." In addition, states that the agreement "was a major· diplomatic 
accomplishment for the United States and a step toward securing peace and preventing nuclear 
proliferation in the Middle East, one for which [the Petitioner] played an important role." ' . 
While indicates that he and the Petitioner "consulted on diplomatic strategies to achieve 
a solution to the Iranian nuclear threat," we note that neither was working for· his respective 
government in July 2015 when the agreement was reached. According to the "Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action" submitted by the Petitioner, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, 
the United States, the European Union, and Iran executed this agreement in July 2015 and Israel was 
not among the participating countries. Furthermore, the record includes a July 2015 article, entitled 
"6 Things You Should Know About the Iran Nuclear Deal," indicating that the agreement concluded 
after a "marathon negotiating session by top diplomats over the past three weeks in Vienna." The 
documentation in the record relating to ,the Iran Nuclear Deal does not indicate that the Petitioner 
was among this agreement's chief negotiators or architects. While attests that the 
Petitioner advocated for pursuing a peaceful diplomatic solution and avoiding U.S. military action 
against Iran, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's particular consultations with 
and advice to other U.S. policy makers regarding a solution to the Iranian nuclear threat 
de~onstrate his integral role in bringing about the Iran Nuclear Deal or otherwise rise to the level of 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
· Moreover, a letter of support from former states: 
[The Petitioner] was an influential analyst and policy strategist on developments in 
U.S.-Isra~I and Israel-Middle East relations during my time on the 
committees. As at the 
. . . and subsequently as a Senior Fellow at [the 
Petitioner] provided me with critical insight and analysis that helped me gain a better 
understanding of U.S.-Israel and Middle East politics when I served on the 
committees. His analysis and advice were 
tremendously helpful to me in my efforts to further strengthen America's relations 
with Israel and my policy decisions vis-a-vis Israel and the Middle East.. 
0 • 
6 
.
Matter of D-A-
further contends that the Petitioner "contributed signifibantiy to the foreign policy 
dialogue surrounding U.S:~Israel and Israel-Middle East relations and ultimately impacted U.S. 
policy toward Israel and the region as a whole." While indicates that the Petitioner 
provided valuable ·insight, analysis, and advice on international relations and Middle East politics, he 
does not identify specific examples of issues on which the Petitioner's policy guidance on U.S., 
Israeli, and Middle Eastern affairs proved influential, nor does he offer sufficient information 
regarding how the Petitioner's particular consultations "impacted U.S. policy toward Israel and the 
region as a whole" or otherwise equate to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
A letter of support from former (2014-2017) and U.S. 
m == (2007~2010), discusses the Petitioner's participation as "a regular member of the 
states that the Petitioner frequently contributed to this group's "discussions which ultimately 
laid t~e diplomatic groundwork for subsequent coordinated U.S.-Israel policy on dealing with 
regional challenges such as the Iran Nuclear issue and the Arab Spring." While the Petitioner 
participated in the aforementioned working group's discussions, the record does not include 
sufficient information regarding his original contributions to these meetings or the significance of 
such contributions. For instance, neither ; letter nor supporting evidence in the record 
demonstrates whether the Petitioner offered specific strategies, recommendations, and/or policy 
input as a member of the group that constituted original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
Additionally, asserts that the Petitioner "played a central role in the drafting and later 
signing of the U.S.-Israel Memorandum of Understanding securing the historic $30 billion in U.S. 
security assistance for Israel for the period 2008-2018, signed by the parties in Jerusalem in 2007." 
The record includes an August 2007 article from the israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs website 
entitled "Signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between Israel and the United States." This 
article states: 
Representing the United States at the ceremony were Undersecretary of State R'. Nicholas 
Burns and U.S. Ambassador to Israel Richard Jones. On the Israeli side, Bank of Israel 
Governor Stanley Fisher, Director General of the Foreign Ministry Aaron Abramovich, 
Director General of the Ministry of Defense Pinchas Buchris and Israel's Ambassador to 
the United States, Salai Meridor, attended. 
The aforementioned article includes a five-page "Transcript of ceremony and press conference," but 
the Petitioner is not mentioned in the aiticle or transcript , nor identified as having "played a central 
role in the drafting and later signing" of the memorandum as claimed by Nor does the 
record otherwise include sufficient information or evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner 's 
particular work relating to this memorandum rises to the level of an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. For instance, the record does not show that the nature and extent of his role 
in the agreement was such that its passage was largely· attributable to him, nor has he identified or 
documented specific original contributions that he made to the drafting of the agreement which have 
been of major significance. 
.., 
.
Matter of D-A-
l 
The record also includes a letter of support from former 
to the United States from 1993 until 1997. 5 He states that the Petitioner served as his Chief of Staff 
during that period and "was a key point of contact to the and 
in planning, ,organizing, and carrying out a number of important 
diplomatic events including numerous visits to the. United States" by 
and and further 
indicates that the Petitioner "helped coordinate the historic signing of s~ver,al peace agreements 
including the U.S.-backed Israeli-Palestinian Declaration of Principles," "the Israeli-Jordanian 
Washington Declaration," "the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty in the Arava Crossing," and "the Israeli­
Palestinian Interim Agreement on tl]e West Bank and the Gaza Strip." In addition, . 
states that the Petitioner accompanied him to the , Israeli.:Syrian talks in 
participated as a member of and served as 
Israel's.point of contact for both the U.S. Government-funded program and the 
. While the Petitioner served as "a key point of 
contact" to the U.S. executive branch in his role as Chief of Staff at the the record 
does not include sufficient information and supporting evidence to demonstrate that through his 
coordination of various diplomatic events, participation as member of 
and work relating to the ___ program and 
he made original contributions of major significance in the field . 
. An additional letter from 
discusses the Petitioner's work as 
from 2009 to 2012 when was to the United States. asserts 
that the Petitioner "was directly involved with the niost important events affecting Israeli foreign 
policy, diplomatic, and security matters during his tenure as · and he made a 
vital contribution to attempts to advance the U .S.-backed peace efforts between Israelis and 
Palestinian promoted by _______ " further states: 
) 
[The Petitioner] was intimately involved in the joint and coordinated U.S.-Israeli 
consultations' and efforts to prevent Iran from reaching military nuclear capability; 
' U.S. continuous diplomatic efforts to bridge the gaps between the Israeli government 
. and the Palestinian Authority; the Israeli-Turkish flotilla incident in May 2010, the 
collapse of Israel-Turkish relations, and U.S. attempts to resolve these issues; Israel,'s 
strategic thinking with regard to the events of the Arab Spring beginning in January 
2011 including the Egyptian Revolution and the outb.reak of civil war in Syria; the 
lifting of the siege on Israel's embassy Cairo in September 2011; restoring Egyptian 
natural gas supply to Israel after terrorist attacks on the pipeline cut supply by 40%; 
and joint U.S.-Israel efforts to deal with the diplomatic, fallout and attempts at the 
letter notes that he is "currently President of the and professor eineritus of 
at . distinguished global professor at and a distinguished 
fellow at the 
8 
.
Matter of D-A-
' [United Nations] and other international organizations to sanction Israel over its ,A 
actions in Gaza. 
lists various peace efforts and foreign policy, diplomatic, and security matters in which the 
Petitioner was involved, but he does not sufficiently explain the nature of the Petitioner's original 
contributions to these efforts and the record does not show that his specific work relating to these 
events rises to the level of major significance .in the field. Furthermore, to the extent the 
aforementioned statements from and focus on the Petitioner's 
responsibilities as and Chief of Staff at the in and the tasks 
he performed in those roles, this information is more relevant to the leading or critical role criterion a:t 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion discussed below and that he has satisfied. 
Consisterit with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we 
will generally not consider evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion to satisfy this 
one. 
In addition to the letters of support, the record reflects that the Petitioner has published and presented 
his work. For example, the Petitioner published an analysis paper entitled . 
and spoke at a policy conference organized by the 
Committee. Publications and presentations, howevyr, are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance."· See Kazarian v. USCJS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. There is no presumption that 
every published article or conference presentation is a contribution of major significance in the field; 
rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of his article or presentation.6 In this case, the 
record does not show that the Petitioner's published and presented work has affected his field in a 
substantial way or that it otherwise equates to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Without sufficient evidence demonstrating the nature of his original contributions or their major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship ofscholarly articles in the field in professional or 
major trade publications or other major medid 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As discussed, the record shows that the Petitioner authored an analysis paper, entitled 
that was pµblished by the at the 
The record includes sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this work constitutes a 
scholarly article in a prot~ssional publication. 7 ·Accordingly , the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
. . 
· 6 Generally, citations can confirm that t.he field has taken interest in a scholar's work. The Petitioner submitted examples 
of several articles that cited to or referenced his analysis paper; .however they do not reflect that his work was singled out 
as particularly important. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the citations to his work, considered both individually 
and collectively, are commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the tJeld." 
· 7 A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship . Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a 
field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evalziation ol Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
9 
.
Matter of D-A-
Evidence that the alien has per.formed in a leading or critical role.for organizatio,ns or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation .. 8 C.F:R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). · 
We find that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on hi.s prior roles as and Chief of Staff at 
the 1n 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "his media coverage, speaking engagements, and published 
· articles" should be considered as comparable evidence of the "showcase of his work in lieu of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)," a criterion that requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the alien's work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases."8 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4) allows for 
comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. A petitioner should 
explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 9 . 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. He 
has not asserted or demonstrated that he cannot offer evidence that ineets at least three of the ten 
criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to ·meet more than three criteria. Moreover, the 
Petitioner has not shown that international relations scholars and consultants cannot present evidence 
relating to the other regulatory criteria such as receiving awards for excellence and commanding a 
high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ix). As such, the Petitioner has not established that 
he is eligible to meet the initial evidence requirements through the submission of comparable 
.d 10 e,v1 ence. 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/pol icy-memoranda. 
8 We note that, withrespect to the media covera·ge relating to the Petitioner (such as his CNN and Al Jazeera appearances 
as well as quotes appearing in major print media), the Director detennined that this evidence did not meet the published 
material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because the submitted material was not about him and the Petitioner does 
not challenge that determination on appeal. In addition, both our dec.ision and that of the Director have addressed the 
· Petitioner 's speaking engagements under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Furthermore, 
as discussed above, we found that the Petitioner's published article entitled · ___ fulfilled 
~he authorship of scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. · . 
10 On appeal, the Petitioner cites an AAO non-precedent decision for the proposition "that to prove eligibility under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) , one must only demonstrate that at least one criterion is not applicable, and that the submitted 
e.vidence is comparable to that criterion. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USClS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(c). Instead, we are bound by the published policy 
memorandum referenced above. 
10 
Matter of D-A-
) C. 0-1 Nohimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability: Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d is 
(D.D.C. 2003); !KEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. SUJ?P· 2d 22 (D.D._C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a.ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL. 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000), aff d, 248 · 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits detennination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
It follows that t.he Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The revocation of the previously approved petition is affirmed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as. an independent and alternative basis for the decision. The burden of proof 
in these proceedings rests solely with the petitioner. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter 
of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The burden remains with the 
petitioner in revocation proceedings to establish eligibility for the benefit sought under the 
immigration laws. Matter of Cheung, 12 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1968); Matter ofEstime, 19 l&N Dec. 
at 452, n.1; and Matter o{Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 589. Here, the Petitioner has not met that burden. . I 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of D-A-, ID# 15189_16 (AAO Jan. 25, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23841598 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 25, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician and singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement, that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer and songwriter specializing in Armenian pop and folk music. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or an allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Artistic display; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to lesser awards and artistic display. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard and maintains that he meets at least one further criterion through the submission of 
comparable evidence. The Petitioner does not pursue his initial claim that he meets the criteria relating 
to published material, judging, and leading or critical role on appeal, nor does he contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding these issues. We therefore consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
11 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not identify a specific original artistic contribution that he has made, but instead referred 
to evidence of his receipt of the title of "HONORED ARTIST" granted to him by the president of the 
Republic of Armenia and his solo performances at international concerts and events. While this evidence 
serves to verify the Petitioner's work as a musician and singer, it does not establish that he has made 
original contributions that have influenced other singers or otherwise been of major significance to the 
field. 
The record also includes a number of reference letters discussing the Petitioner's musical work.2 For 
example, the Petitioner submitted letters from several "honored artists" of Armenia, including I I 
_____________ who state that the Petitioner "is one of the best performing artists 
in Armenia" and that "his concerts are overcrowded with s ectators in different cities of the world." 
of of Armenia, states the Petitioner "is a 
motivated, very artistic, and responsible person with a high level of intelligence," and that "he is one of 
the best Armenian folk-pop entertainers of his generation." I I Manager of the Armenian 
I I states that the Petitioner was the headliner for thel I 
in July 2019, and notes that the Petitioner's "name and esteem brought over 5,000 excited 
fans to see him perform for the first time in Canada." 
Although the letters praise the Petitioner's skills and talents, simply having a unique or special skill set is 
not intrinsically a contribution of major significance. The record must be supported by evidence that the 
Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant level, which he has 
not shown. In addition, the letters do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's talents and skills have been a 
major influence in the field of endeavor. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2 (Appendix), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his music constitutes "contributions of major significance 
in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). While the record includes some evidence that 
the Petitioner's musical talents have been recognized, it is insufficient to confirm that his work has been 
widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Moreover, while the record demonstrates his popularity 
in Armenia, and while the letters indicate that the Petitioner has received some attention from the field 
for his performances and recordings in the Armenian music genre, they are insufficient to establish that 
the extent of his influence has risen to the level of "major significance in the field." For example, while 
Mr. I I indicated that the Petitioner's performance at the I I was 
well-received, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the reception of his work supports a finding 
that it constitutes "major significance in the field." Neither the letter nor other evidence in the record 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. . 
3 
confirms that his performance at the festival or any other events or venues resulted in his musical style 
being widely adopted throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. Here, 
however, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his musical work has had on the field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact 
on subsequent work add value. See id. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for 
meeting this criterion. See id. Moreover, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of original contributions of major significance. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he 
meets this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a 
ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on comparable evidence under 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, he asserts that evidence of his YouTube channel, 
"in the absence of databases for Armenian music comparable to the Billboard Top 100, etc.," should 
be considered as comparable evidence applicable to satisfy this criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to a petitioner's 
occupation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendix). A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Here, the Petitioner does not establish why this evidence should be considered as comparable evidence 
under this same criterion that he claims to meet through the submission of reference letters and evidence 
of his performances and recordings. In addition, the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly 
comparable" to the criteria listed in the regulation. The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence 
showing that the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
does not readily apply to his occupation as a musician and singer. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the individual's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that an individual has recorded 
4 
and released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or 
television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must 
show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 (Appendix). 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged his claims 
regarding the commercial success of his musical recordings, but emphasized that the regulatory 
criterion calls for evidence of commercial success in the form of "sales" or "receipts," evidence which 
the Petitioner had not provided. On appeal, the Petitioner argues eligibility for this criterion based on 
comparable evidence in the form of the number of unique visitors to his Y ouTube channel. 
As previously noted, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses comparable evidence and allows 
a petitioner the opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish his or her eligibility, ifUSCIS 
determines that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's occupation. See id. A petitioner 
should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See id. Here, the Petitioner does not show that the standard criteria do not 
readily apply to his occupation. Rather, he initially claimed to satisfy several criteria, and has in fact 
satisfied two of them, outright. The Petitioner has not adequately explained his contention that the 
comparable evidence clause applies in this matter. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the wording of this regulatory criterion remains "stuck in the utterly 
outmoded and irrelevant world of obsolete consumer technology," and therefore the YouTube metrics 
should be considered. While the Petitioner's assertions are noted, the regulations, in their published 
form, are binding in this proceeding; the Petitioner has no right or privilege to declare those regulations 
"obsolete" and substitute a new standard more favorable to his interests. While the Petitioner's 
assertions are noted, further discussion of You Tube metrics would be more appropriate in the context 
of a final merits determination once a given individual has met the initial evidentiary threshold at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Here, the Petitioner has not cleared that threshold, and therefore a more 
detailed discussion of the YouTube metrics would not affect the outcome of the proceeding. 
However, assuming arguendo that the Petitioner established that this criterion does not apply to his 
occupation, and that the type of evidence he submitted is in fact comparable to that specifically called for 
under this criterion, the Petitioner has still not established that he has enjoyed commercial success as a 
performing artist. First, the majority of the evidence pertaining to his YouTube channel and the number 
of times his videos have been viewed or streamed post-dates the filing of the petition. For example, the 
Petitioner submits screenshots of his Y ouTube channel demonstrating the total number of views for 
videos such as and' " which were 
released inl 12020, 0211 12021, and I 12021, respectively. As noted by the 
Director, the metrics for these videos do not support the Petitioner's assertion that he had achieved 
commercial success at the time the petition was filed in April 2020. A petitioner must establish eligibility 
at the time of filing; a petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner or beneficiary 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). 
5 
In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that a certain quantity of streams or 
views of his videos, whether considered individually or as a whole, can serve as a gauge of commercial 
success. Although the Petitioner provided screenshots from Y ouTube, he did not offer evidence of his 
commercial successes through receipts or sales, and did not demonstrate that his presence on Y ouTube 
resulted in a volume of sales reflecting commercial successes compared to other musicians or singers. 
For that reason, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner is insufficient to show that his videos, which 
have been streamed and viewed on Y ouTube, have been commercially successful. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record 
indicates that the Petitioner has enjoyed some success as a musician and signer, but it does not show 
that this success has translated into individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23214182 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 26, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a folk and classical singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate their 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows their sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has studied music and erformed as a folk and classical singer since 1997, when he first 
entered a preparatory course at Conservatory I I a regional state-run musical 
conservatory located in __ Armenia. He interrupted his musical studies to perform compulsory 
military service from 1998 through 2000. In 2001, he returned to to study vocal theory, 
graduating with the qualification of an "an opera and concert singer-teacher in the field of vocal art." 
The record does not reflect whether he earned an academic de ree there. Startin in 2005 he worked 
for and toured internationally with the Armenian 
as a vocal soloist. He has toured as a singer, not only with but also with other ensembles such 
as the Armenian He entered the United States 
in March 2021 as a B-2 nonimmigrant and indicates that, subject to the approval of this petition, he 
plans to tour and teach vocal theory to "bring renewed attention and respect for folk and classical 
Armenian songs in the United States." 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display of his work at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which is supported by the record. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
the eight remaining regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which we will discuss in tum. 1 
1 While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence (1) of membership in an association, (2) that the 
association be in the petitioner's academic field, and (3) that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion through his employment withl The Director 
determined that he did not meet this criterion, in part, because the record did not demonstrate that I qualifies as an "association which requires outstanding achievements of their members .... " 
He concluded that the letters submitted to establish I I membership requirements were not 
supported by objective contemporaneous evidence, such as its by-laws or other organizational 
documents to illustrate its membership requirements. The Director specifically asked for such 
evidence in a request for evidence (RFE) prior to the denial of the petition. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to letters from individuals he considers to be experts in his field who 
assert thatl ldoes have such membership requirements. In particular, he discusses letters from I I asserting that he is I I director and insisting that his letters are 
probative evidence sufficient to establish its membership requirements. 
First, the Petitioner has not shown thatl I director. The Petitioner submitted a partially 
translated foreign language brochure, issued to celebrate I !anniversary in 2018. The 
brochure states thatl lhas beenl director since 1984. Many other individuals 
are noted as serving or having served in leadership capacities withinl I over the years, but 
is not mentioned as a member of the leadership team in the document's partial English translation. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a complete and properly certified English language translation, 
we cannot determine if the partially translated material is accurate and supports the Petitioner's claims 
regarding! I authority to speak onl I behalf on issues like its membership requirements 
and the significance of the Petitioner's role within the organization. 
The Director stated in the RFE and denial that any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3 ). The translator must certify 
that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate 
from the foreign language into English. Id. Many of the provided foreign language documents lack 
the required full certified English translations and we incorporate our concerns regarding these 
documents, relating to this and other criteria. Without the required translations, they are of little 
probative value. In evaluating the evidence, eligibility is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
3 
Even ifc=]is qualified to describe! I membership requirements, he presents inconsistent and 
insufficient information in his letters of the methodology it used in 2005 to hire the Petitioner. For 
instance, in his 2021 letterl indicated thatl I requirements for membership are: 
• A diploma from 
• 10 years of work experience, recognized in the field of expertise; 
• Nomination for membership entered by the Director, and; 
• A final determination to be made by the committee of Ministry of Culture of 
Armenia. 
The requirement of a diploma fromc=J-;eems to limit membership soley to those who attended this 
regional state-run music school, which raises doubts regarding whether membership meets the 
plain language standards of this criterion. Also, while I lwork experience requirement implies 
its members must be experienced, it does not support the Petitioner's claim that it limits membership 
only to those who have outstanding achievements in their field. 
Although I !contends that I I requires "l 0 years of work experience," according to the 
Petitioner's own biographical statements and other evidence in the record, he gained membership in 
2005 at the age of 25 -well before he acquired ten years of work experience. In addition, while 
indicates membership is decided by a committee in the Armenian ministry of culture, the Petitioner 
has not offered evidence of his nomination and ultimate approval for membership inl I nor has 
he demonstrated that persons who comprise the Armenian ministry of culture committee qualify as 
"recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies and ambiguities in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). 
alternately asserts in his 2022 letter that "for [ the Petitioner] to pass the rigorous test of becoming 
a member of we organized a competition where [he] proved with his singing ability, talent 
and knowledge of Armenian folk and eastern traditional songs and music, that he is still the best and 
has no equal." did not indicate in his 2021 letter thatl requires competition for those who 
wish to gain membership, nor does he describe in his 2022 letter how the Petitioner's competition was 
conducted, the requirements for participation, and whether others beyond the Petitioner were allowed 
to compete. 
The Petitioner has not explained whyl I I presents inconsistent methods through which vocalists are 
admitted tol I We conclude that letters lend little probative value to the matter here. 
Doubt cast on any aspect of the Petitioner's [evidence] may, of course, lead to a reevaluation of the 
reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter of 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. The 
Petitioner says he qualifies for this criterion based on his role as a soloist for I I but the Director 
determined the record did not give sufficient information about his position or its duties to show his 
role was essential to the outcome ofl I activities. The Director also noted the limited English 
translations of I brochure identified many other people who are engaged in its management 
and oversight in positions such as director, chorus masters, conductors and choreographers, and that 
neither the Petitioner nor are mentioned in the documentation as performing in any of these roles. 
The Director also explained how other letters submitted to establish the nature of the Petitioner's 
singing roles at various venues, such as an event to mark the anniversary of a composer, showed 
that he was a valued participant in these performances, but did not illustrate that he performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his role sets him apart from others who 
perform in these musical ensembles, nor was there sufficient evidence to show his positioning in 
establishments that have distinguished reputations in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically address the concerns outlined by the Director in his 
denial but instead generally asserts that the Director "did not review the contents of the letters in 
detail." Based on our de novo review, we agree with the Director that it is not apparent from the 
evidence how the Petitioner's role forl land the other referenced organizations was leading or 
critical, or that these entities enjoy distinguished reputations. Accordingly, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
On appeal, the Petitioner references! I letters which allege that the Petitioner "as a best soloist, 
also has a remarkably high salary at our ensemble compared to the other soloists in Armenia. He 
receives high compensation from [the] ensemble's concerts and receives bonus compensation for his 
performances." We incorporate our previous concerns regarding the probative value ofl I letters 
with regard to the conditions of the Petitioner's employment with I Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
at591-92. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not presented documentary evidence to show what 
his compensation was as a soloist. Nor does the offered evidence compare his salary or remuneration 
5 
to others similarly employed to establish he has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration 
for his services. The plain language of the regulation requires the Petitioner to demonstrate his salary 
is high when compared to others performing similar work in his field, and he has not done so. This 
criterion has not been met. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner stated that he has performed as a soloist in collaboration with other Armenian ensembles 
in many concerts and referenced his letters of support and promotional materials about his 
performances, but the Director concluded that this material did not sufficiently constitute evidence of 
his commercial successes. This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish his commercial success 
through economic measures, such as volume of sales or box office receipts. The evidence includes a 
sold-out flyer for an organization's anniversary event at a Holiday Inn inl I But the 
Petitioner did not provide ticket sales data for this and other events where he performed to show the 
revenue he earned as a vocalist. The Director explained that without knowing the size of a venue, 
simply selling all tickets is not sufficient evidence of commercial successes. The letters also did not 
offer data about box office receipts at the Petitioner's events or revenue earned from the sale of his 
recorded music. For instance, one letter stated that the Petitioner performed at thel lof 
Armenia, but without sales documentation and comparable records for other singers, the evidence is 
insufficient to show his commercial success. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references the previously submitted evidence, such as letters, program 
brochures and event advertisements, and contends that the Director erred in requiring documentary 
evidence of his commercial success, such as sales revenue or box office receipts. He asserts that 
requiring such evidence is in error as "[tt ]he regulation never states on its face that the box office sales 
are the only regulating and deciding factor under this criterion." While we may agree that box office 
sales are not the only determining factor, we disagree with his proposition that general evidence of 
"his performances with different ensembles around the world," is sufficient to demonstrate his 
commercial successes in the performing arts. Here the plain language specifically calls for the 
submission of documentary evidence of monetary compensation or other commercially recognized 
rankings for his performing arts services, such as box office receipts or sales volumes for his musical 
products, to show that the Petitioner is commercially successful. Without more, the evidence provided 
falls short of the documentary requirements for this criterion. Accordingly, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that he "has not been an author of any books or scholarly 
articles," and he does not specifically contest the Director's decision relating to this criterion. 
Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not discuss this criterion further. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
6 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion and we agree. For 
instance, the Petitioner provided a foreign language songbook entitled "Wedding Rites and Komitas," 
which was written and published in 2019 by another individual, A-S-. He describes the book as the 
product of a "project [to] recover [traditional] wedding rites while adapting them to contemporary 
requirements," and asserts he was invited to sing the songs in the book. The Petitioner has not 
adequately explained how this book of wedding songs constitutes published material about him, nor 
has he shown that the book publisher qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or as major 
media. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles discussing events where the Petitioner performed while touring 
through various locales. Although the Petitioner's performances are mentioned, the articles appear to 
recount the occurrence of his concerts as general public interest stories. The Director concluded that 
this evidence reflected mostly promotional content for ensemble performances and were not articles 
specifically about the Petitioner. He noted, for example, that the Petitioner's singing work was 
mentioned in one sentence among four translated paragraphs in an article reporting on the last night 
of the I I Group's performance and discussed the performances of multiple individuals 
and a dance group program. Likewise, another article described a 'I I' ensemble performance, 
and one sentence mentioned the Petitioner and another soloist who participated in the performance. 
These articles are not published material about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about individual performers in that show). 
The Petitioner has also not offered evidence sufficient to show these publications qualify as major 
media based on the limited circulation data provided about them. As these periodicals target their 
content to a segment of the general public located in Kuwait, Turkey, and elsewhere, the evidence also 
does not demonstrate they qualify as professional or major trade publications. 
Finally, the Petitioner offers links to his vocal performances published on Y ouTube. Without more, 
the availability of his recorded performances on Y ouTube does not illustrate that this is published 
material in major media. The internet in general and Y ouTube in particular are arenas available to 
any user with access to a computer and an internet connection regardless of notoriety or recognition 
in the performing arts. To conclude otherwise would render the "major media" requirement in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) meaningless. International internet accessibility by itself is 
not a realistic indicator of whether content posted on a given website constitutes major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on a gold medal issued to him by the Armenian 
ministry ofl I in 2011 and two certificates from this government agency on other occasions. A 
third certificate issued with the gold medal states that the medal was awarded to the Petitioner "[f]or 
his significant contribution to the field of Armenian music, on the occasion of the anniversary of 
7 
the independence of the Republic of Armenia, the I soloist was awarded with a gold medal of 
the Ministry ofl lofthe Republic of Armenia." 
A 2022 letter from deputy minister, Republic of Armenia, Ministry of ___ 
indicated that the Petitioner was given the award for his "significant 
contribution to the field of Armenian Song and music," noting that the award was "given to few artists 
and performers for their high skills and great merit in promotion and development of arts." The record 
also includes evidence about other recipients of this same award, including a cultural exchange 
supporter for his contributions "to Armenian Japanese friendship," a television anchor and author for 
her contributions "to the development of Armenian and global opera art on the occasion of the 30th 
anniversary of her career," and a museum curator for "her input and [her museum's] activities in the 
museum field of Armenia which stood out for their exemplary standards of programming and 
operations." 
The Director requested evidence in the RFE to establish specific details pertaining to the criteria for 
granting the awards; if there were others that were considered for the award; if there were any 
limitations on competitors; and if the basis for granting the award was excellence in the performing 
arts. The Petitioner did not sufficiently address this aspect either in his RFE response or on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "the words 'significant contribution' has a meaning of 
'excellence' as is indicated in the plain language of the regulation." While we acknowledge the 
submitted letters, the record does not contain sufficient contemporaneous documentary evidence that 
explains the basis for these awards to show that they qualify as an award for excellence in the 
performing arts. Rather, the evidence suggests that the Minister of I of the Republic of Armenia 
periodically gives awards to recognize individuals who work in a wide variety of occupations which 
promote Armenian culture. The Petitioner has not adequately established that the "significant 
contributions" referenced by the Minister of I lin granting the award are synonymous with an 
award for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Though requested by the Director in the RFE, the record lacks sufficient evidence from the award­
granting institution (in this case the Armenian ministry of that identifies its purpose for these 
awards and the methodology it uses to select recipients for them. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). It is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not done so here. Without more, submitting evidence of the 
Petitioner's receipt of awards is insufficient to meet the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). We incorporate our concerns regarding the lack of probative evidence about these 
awards in our consideration of the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 376. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends he has made original contributions in the field of performing arts, with a 
specific emphasis on Armenian folk and classical singing. The submitted evidence includes letters 
from other musicians, cultural representatives, directors, composers, and professors, awards, 
8 
performance playbills, and articles about his performances which we have previously addressed and 
incorporate here from our analysis of other criterion. 
The Director discussed the letters in the denial and emphasized that while the authors described the 
Petitioner's work forl I other ensembles, and his ability to sing folk and classical songs in unique 
ways, they lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field or how his 
techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field. For instance, one writer notes thatD D the regional music school where the Petitioner studied music years ago -utilizes his musical 
recordings because his "improvisations and additional styles and genres in singing Armenian folk, 
classical and traditional songs [are] critical for [students] to understand the potential of the singer's 
voice and the song's performance for the audience .... " The Director recognized the Petitioner's 
professional accomplishments, but ultimately determined that the testimonial evidence did not 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination and reiterates that the testimonials from 
experts in his field demonstrate that his work is original and that he has made contributions of major 
significance to his field of endeavor. The Petitioner asserts the previously submitted letters show that 
he "has made major significant contributions to the preservation and development of Armenian art 
and music to be able to sing Armenian traditional and classical songs in a unique style only attributed 
to him," and that he has been an "extraordinary singer to many schools of music in Armenia and 
around the world." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has not only made original contributions, 
but that they have been of major significance in the performing arts field. Major significance in the 
field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. The documents in the record primarily contain 
attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without providing specific examples of how his 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
For instance, according to the letter froml I (who was educated at and has been 
employed there as a teacher), the Petitioner "has made contributions of major significance to the 
preservation of the Armenian traditional songs and music by giving them new breadth and style to be 
followed by further Armenian great singers." (Emphasis added.) Likewise,! director 
of the Armenian! I indicates that the Petitioner has performed with his 
orchestra many times, and asserts that the singers [including the Petitioner] who participated in a 
concert dedicated to thOanniversary of a composer "were in the top 1 % of all singers in Armenia." 
He contends that the Petitioner "not only preserves the traditions of the school of the Armenian 
traditional and folk music, but also prepares future singers with the utmost responsibilities." 
While the letter writers expound on the Petitioner's stage presence and singing abilities, they do not 
discuss the specific traditional song preservation and vocal teaching efforts of major significance that 
the Petitioner has been engaged in, beyond performing such songs in concerts. Without more, letters 
that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already 
influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 
1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept letters which 
9 
offer primarily conclusory statements. See 1756, Inc. v. US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 
1990) (holding that an agency need not credit conclusory assertions in immigration benefits 
adjudications). For these reasons, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies 
are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see 
also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted 
documentation of his professional achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7052022 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 27, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cardiologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as chief f hysician in the cardiology department at the D I in I I China since 2007. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
reviewed articles for a journal, authored scholarly articles in professional publications, and performed 
in a leading role as chief physician for .... l ___ _.J 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled three criteria. Because the 
Petitioner has shown that she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below.2 
1 See cover letter submitted at initial filing of the petition. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 3 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
At the outset, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented her academic and professional career. 
Specifically, the Petitioner provided very little evidence of her education and employment history. 
The record reflects recommendation letters that make some references to her schooling and work 
ex erience. For instance, .__ ____ ~ _ _.indicated that the Petitioner "graduated from I I 
~-------,r=====-=--in_l_,986 and now serves as professor and chief physician in the Cardiology 
Department of,__ __ ___," and "studied in Japan for two years from 1996." Moreover, I I 
.___ _ _.I briefly stated that the Petitioner "studied in Japan for 2 years." The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 5 Here, the significant gaps in the 
evidence relating to both her academic and professional career do not meet this very high standard, 
nor do they support a finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged the work of others within her field, authored scholarly 
articles, and performed in a leading role. However, she has not demonstrated that her achievements 
reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary ability for this highly 
restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.6 She provided a letter from I I 
~--------~department at the Journal of China Medical University, who stated that the 
Petitioner "has reviewed dozens of articles." In addition, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing 
her as a 1 I for the textbookJ I Further, the Petitioner presented evidence 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
3 
reflecting that she twice served on the academic review committee at the Annual Meeting of Chinese I lin 2012 and 2017. However, the Petitioner did not establish that her 
judging instances places her among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to others at the 
very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her judging occurrences contribute to a finding that 
she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress or indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the 
field based on her work as a journal reviewer or committee member. Accordingly, the Petitioner did 
not show that she has sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, serving on a judging committee or in the peer review process does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as 
evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests 
relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired 
technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that her peer review 
experience places her among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the publication of her research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 7 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored 118 articles from 1983 to 2018. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this publication record is consistent with having a 
"career of acclaimed work" or qualifies for this "very high standard." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that her authorships reflect being among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not show the significance of her authorship of 118 articles over 35 years or how her 
publications compare to others with similar years of experience who are viewed to be at the very top 
of the field. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other cardiologists have been influenced by her 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that her 
articles cumulatively garnered hundreds of citations. 8 However, the majority of the articles have been 
cited 10 times or less, including dozens that have been cited two times or less. 
7 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
8 See screenshots from xueshu.baidu.com. 
4 
While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed her 
work, she has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the 
field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to her research represent attention at a 
level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 9 Although the record reflects that she submitted the citatory history from five peers in 
similar occupations, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these individuals are among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. Further, while the citatory history shows that she garnered 
more citations than her submitted few samples, the Petitioner did not establish that her citations are 
unusually high when compared to others in her field as a whole, rather than a selective number of 
peers with lower citation statistics, setting her among the top of the field. 
As it pertains to her position as chief physician at I l the Petitioner demonstrated that the role 
itself is leading to the university hospital. However, the Petitioner did not establish that her role at a 
single organization or establishment represents sustained national or international acclaim or a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Moreover, while the Petitioner submitted reference letters that discussed her research findings and 
studies, they did not show that her chief physician role resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, 
that she drew significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers her be at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. Further, her reference letters made broad assertions without 
providing specific, detailed information establishing that the Petitioner received sustained national or 
international acclaim either based on her role as the chief physician or based on her contributions in 
the field as a whole. For example,.__ ______ _,discussed the Petitioner's research relating to 
coronary heart disease risk assessment and therapeutic evaluation and indicated that "it improved the 
accuracy rate of coronary heart disease diagnosis from 80% to 90%, which is a pioneering work in the 
field."10 Similarly, stated that "[in 2016 [the Petitioner] successfully performed 
the first case of coronary m Province, and since then, our hospital 
successfully completed 200 cases of coronary~------~ under her leadership, wining [sic] 
hi h acclaim from the Chinese counterparts and becoming a renowned demonstration unit for coronary 
nationwide." Likewise.I I commented that he collaborated with L-~-~~~--r-~-----7 
her for the book,'-------~- and asserted that "the book has been welcomed and praised by 
the doctors of cardiology and nuclear medicine, and [has] become the most comprehensive and 
systematic book about nuclear cardiology in China so far." 
However, the recommenders did not support their letters with specific information explaining how the 
Petitioner's work atl I and research drew sustained national or international acclaim and places 
her among the small percentage at ~top of the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For instanceL__Jdid not farther elaborate and explain how the overall field 
views the Petitioner's work as "pioneering" rather than an uncorroborated personal opinion. 
9 The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her attendance and presentation at scientific conferences, such as the First 
~--------.=--C.:....o.:....n_fe.:....r-'-en_c:....:;e....;o.:....f_N....c..,uclear Medicine, the I ~fNuclear Cardiology I I Scientific 
Session, and the.__ _____ ~Tntemational Cardiology Congress. However, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her paiticipation resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates evidence of being among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
Moreover, whi~ indicated that the Petitioner performed the first case of coronary! I 
I • I in~ Province, he did not articulate the significant impact or influence in the field 
as a whole rather than limited to the hospital where she performed the procedure. Furthermore,D I I did not justify his claim that the book "is the most comprehensive and systematic book about 
nuclear cardiology in China," and whether the book received attention from the overall field at a level 
consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top of the field. Although the Petitioner 
performed in the expected role of a chief physician at a hospital and made original contributions 
through her research and work, she did not demonstrate that she garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish her eligibility for 
the benefit sought. Moreover, the Petitioner did not fully document her academic and professional 
career. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major 
league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF H-X- DATE: JAN. 28, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE. DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a clinical investigator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
which require documentati9n of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the 
10 regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We affirmed the Director's decision on 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision, which we 
denied.1 
The matter is now before us on the second motions to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits additional documentation, asserting that he meets at least three criteria for this 
classification under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Upon de novo review, we will deny both motions. 
· I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
Section 203{b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability. The 
term ."extraordinary ability"·refers only to those individuaJs in "that small percentage who have risen 
:#' 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of H-X-,' ID# 1227778 (AAO Jun. 15, 2018). 
Matter of H-X-
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). A petitioner can demonstrate a 
one-time acq.ievement (that is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material 
in certain media). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the. small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS. 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in-the context ofa final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our prior decision, we held that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements for a motion to 
reconsider and that the new evidence he submitted with the motion to reopen did ·not establish 
eligibility under the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Here, the Petitioner submits 
this joint motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision in which we reached those 
conclusions. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of _the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). It must be supported by. a pertinent precedent or 
adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) or Department of Homeland Security (OHS) policy. 
The Petitioner does not cite binding precedent decisions or other legal authority establishing that we 
incorrectly applied the pertinent law or agency policy in our prior decision based on the evidence of 
record at the time. To establish eligibility, we note that the Petitioner cites regulations from the 
Food and Drug Administration, which are not dispositive in this matter: Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and 
he has not met the requirements for a motion to reconsider.2 
2 The Petitioner contends that the authority of the Attorney General, now the Secretary of DHS, to revoke the approval of 
a petition, as stated in section 205 of the Act, does not extend to the Director. While this is beyond the scope of our 
review, we note that section 204 of the Act gives the Attorney General authority over petitions for aliens seeking 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. Section 204(a)( I )(E) of the Act, 8 U .S.C. § I I 54(a)( I )(E); see also 
. 8 C.F.R. § 2.1 (allowing the Secretary of DHS to delegate her authority) and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2 (stating that a Service 
officer authorized to approve a petition u.nder section 204 of the Act has autho'rity to revoke the approval ofa petition). · 
2 
.
Matter of H-X-
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by document~ry evidence. 8 C.F.R . 
. § 103.5(a)(2). We interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on 
motion and that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original 
petition. Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not 
constitute "new facts." 
In our dismissal of his appeal, we held that the Petitioner.met only the scholarly articles criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). In his first motion, he submitted new evidence related to his membership 
in the , .and we found that this evidence failed to satisfy the regulatory 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). In the instant motion, he submits several pages from the 
Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) Manual, highlighting the occupational description for 
Medical Scientists, Except Epidemiologists, under SOC code 19-1042, and he resubmits other 
material already in the record. Here, the Petitioner does not explain how the information from the 
SOC manual relates to his claim regarding the membership criterion, nor does he show how it 
establishes eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements for a motion· to reopen. 
III._ CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The motion to reconsider is denied because the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous findings were based on an incorrect application of the law, regulations, or USCIS 
policy. Th~ motion to reopen is denied because the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence 
demonstrating that he meets the initial requirements for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
·-· FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of H~X-, ID# 1925252 {AAO Jan. 28, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 5125191 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who identifies himself as a "social reformer," seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he seeks to enter the United States as a "community and social service 
specialist." The record emphasizes his volunteer work and charitable donations rather than his 
employment. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three of those criteria: 
• (i) Nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor; 
• (v) Original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field; and 
• (viii) Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met any of the evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he also meets the three previously claimed criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements 
of any of the ten regulatory criteria. 
Because the Petitioner has claimed the minimum number of criteria, he must meet each of the claimed 
criteria in order to qualify for the benefit sought. Here, we will focus on the first of them. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of three award certificates: 
2 
• "Volunter [sic] Award/ Lions of The Year 2015-2016" from the Lions Club of~I ----~ 
presented to the Petitioner "For Outstanding Extraordi~dication and Commitment"; 
• "National Volunter [sic] Award" from Knowledge NetL......J presented to the Petitioner in 2017 
in recognition of his "hard work & extra ordinary dedication"; and 
• "Volunteer Service Award" from I I Club, given in 2017 because the Petitioner "has 
proven to be an out standing extra-Ordinary Social worker [sic]." 
We note that all three certificates contain typographical errors, and two of them show the Petitioner's 
name handwritten into blank spaces. The Lions Club award is fully printed, but the wording of the 
certificate indicates that the award is from one local club rather than from the Lions Club at a national or 
international level. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence to establish the significance of the prizes, the Petitioner 
submitted letters from officials of the awarding entities. A Lions Club district governor stated that there 
are four Lions Club districts i~ I each of which recognizes one Lion of the Year. This information 
confirms that the Petitioner was recognized at the district level, rather than nationally or internationally. 
The president of Knowledge NetO indicated that only one person receives the National Volunteer 
Award each year, and that the Petitioner received the third such award. The official also asserted that 
"Knowledge Netl lis a highly reputed national organization," but the Petitioner submitted no 
independent evidence to corroborate this assertion. The record lacks basic information about Knowledge 
Netl I such as a mailing address; the only contact information provided is an email address and a 
telephone number. The information and evidence provided does not establish Knowledge Netl ~s 
reputation outside of the organization itself: and it does not show that the National Volunteer Award is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
The chairman ofthel I club called the organization "j repurd club" that "organizes [a] great 
yearly fair in order to raise fund[ s ]," but, as with Knowledge Net the record does not establish that 
the club is a nationally significant organization or that its Volunteer Service Award is nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish national or international recognition of his awards. 
The Director also questioned the credibility of the award certificate from Knowledge N etl I because 
the letter from that organization identified a different winner of the 2015-2016 Volunteer Award. The 
latter conclusion arose from a misreading of the letter and award certificate; the Petitioner received the 
2016-2017 award. We find no substantive discrepancies in the award documentation, but the Director's 
finding regarding the significance of the awards remains. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the key finding about the national or international recognition 
of his awards. The Petitioner observes that he had previously submitted printouts from the website of the 
Lions Clubs International. The Petitioner's award, however, was not from the international organization, 
but from one local chapter. The Petitioner did not show that the Lion of the Year award from thd I I !chapter is nationally or internationally recognized. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that he received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues. 1 
B. Continued Work in the Field 
Beyond the Director's decision, review of the record reveals another significant issue. The Petitioner 
seeks what is, by statute, an employment-based immigrant classification for individuals employed in the 
sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics, who intend to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability. See sections 203(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act. 
The Petitioner states that he plans to earn $33,000 per year in the United States, but does not explain how 
he will do so. The Petitioner's claims and evidence center around donations he has made to charitable 
causes and his apparently unpaid volunteer work for various organizations. As praiseworthy as these 
endeavors may be, they do not amount to employment, nor do they constitute a field of endeavor in the 
sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics. 
The record also sheds little light on the Petitioner's earlier employment abroad. Various exhibits in the 
record refer to the Petitioner as an "entrepreneur," but provide no other information about his business. 
The record does not show that the Petitioner's philanthropic work was directly related to his employment, 
rather than a separate endeavor that his salaried work enabled him to pursue. The Petitioner's intention 
to continue supporting charities, while engaged in unrelated employment, cannot serve as a basis for an 
employment-based immigration benefit.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
2 It also bears noting that the Petitioner's expected earnings of $33,000 per year exceed the federal poverty guidelines for 
a family of five by less than $3000, which would appear to limit his ability to donate to charities as he has done in the past. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 5845177 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a master mariner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director found that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence ofrecord 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary 
step in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the 
petition, entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be "currently emplo,_i_ed_a_s_a_M_a_st_e_r_w_i_th--=;--:------------~ I I .. on a 4+ month assignment on the [ !' 1 Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 See appeal brief submitted on May 8, 2019. 
2 
In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets six criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on membership with the Foreign Owners 
Representatives and Ship Managers Association (FOSMA). In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 2 
He submits two certificates from the "FOSMA Maritime Institute and Research Organisation 
[FOSMA MIRO]" reflecting his completion of a course in 1998 and refresher training in 2001. 
However, the certificates do not establish his membership with FOSMA; rather, they demonstrate that 
he participated and completed two courses offered by FOSMA MIRO. Further, the Petitioner did not 
offer evidence from FOSMA confirming his membership, nor did he show that only FOSMA members 
are permitted to attend FOSMA MIRO courses. 
In addition, he presents screenshots from fosma.net regarding background and objectives showing that 
FOSMA "provide[ s] body representative of the foreign owners and ship manager operating in India 
for the purpose of developing, promoting and protecting their business activities and the interest of 
foreign owners in India" and "encourage[ s] and promote[ s] cordial relationship and unanimity among 
representatives of foreign owners and ship managers on all subjects involving their common good." 
Moreover, the screenshots indicate that membership requires the applicant to be engaged in recruiting 
seafarers on behalf of ship managers or ship owners or placing seafarers with ship owners, registration 
with the Directorate General of Shipping as a recruitment service provider holding a valid license, 
charitable donation to FOSMA MIRO, and compliance and subscription to various fees. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the requirements rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, the membership requirements show involvement in 
recruitment, charitable donation, and fee payments, which are not tantamount to outstanding 
achievements. 3 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
3 
Moreover, the screenshots indicate that the membership application is "put up at the Board of Directors 
meeting." However, the Petitioner did not identify the members on the Board of Directors, nor did he 
establish that it is comprised of nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner contends to fulfill this criterion based on teachin "at Academy as a visiting 
faculty [sic] the course.__ ____________________ ~" This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
an allied field of specialization. 4 He submits a letter froml I Academy stating that the Petitioner 
"has been teaching at our .__ ________ ~ACADEMY' as visiting faculty" on three 
occasions. In addition, he provides the course outline, time table, syllabus, and handout. Moreover, 
he presents "About Us" screenshots from I I com. 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner did not establish how teaching 
students a course is tantamount to participating as a judge of the work of others. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate his designation as a judge, nor did he show that he actually judged the 
work of others in the same of similar field of specialization. In addition, the Petitioner did not identify 
who he judged. Without further documentation, his evidence regarding teaching a course is inadequate 
to satisfy this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that he "exhibits original contributions with each successful ship-to-ship (STS) 
operations" and his "operation of[] large tankers is in itself an indication of originality." In order to 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a 
petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
Although he references his submission of information relating to supertankers and the international 
maritime transportation field, as well as discussing various oil spills, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his contributions are considered both original and of major significance in the field. Moreover, 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
the Petitioner did not establish how operating a ship, supertanker, or other large carrier is tantamount 
to an original contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself Here, the Petitioner did not show 
how operating a crude carrier without incurring incidences or causing a maritime disaster constitutes 
an original contribution of major significance. Further, we are not persuaded that each and every 
successful operation of a ship, either by the Petitioner or by any other master mariner, represents an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. 
Likewise, he offers recommendation letters from andl I 
who commented on the Petitioner's skills and experience. For instance, I I stated that 
"[t]here are fewer than 100 skilled, experienced and approved Mooring Masters in the world and [the 
Petitioner], is one among them." Moreover,~~----~indicated that the Petitioner "is a very 
experienced Mariner, serving on board as well as commanding all sizes of Oil Tankers in his extensive 
sea career." However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself Further, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has 
already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his experience in the field somehow resulted in an 
original contribution of major significance. In addition, the letters do not establish the Petitioner's 
impact in the overall field beyond working for various employers. 6 
In the case here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact his personal contributions have had on the general field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner claims that he "has prepared and authored several courses in his field." Moreover, he 
asserts that "[t]here are no scholarly journals in seafaring, but these course materials are comparable 
to scholarly articles for Mooring Masters because they are a prerequisite for seafarers on tankers," and 
"[t]here are no comparable peer-reviewed journals for international maritime transportation." 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to his occupation. 9 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence that 
would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence 
he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 10 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide documentation supporting his assertion regarding the non­
existence of scholarly articles and journals. General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do 
not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and should be discounted. 11 Furthermore, the fact 
that the Petitioner did not offer documentation that satisfies the scholarly articles criterion is not 
evidence that a master mariner could not do so. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown why he 
cannot submit evidence that meets at least three criteria. In fact, as indicated above, the Petitioner 
claims to meet five other criteria. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish how course materials at 
an academy are "truly comparable" to the authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 12 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies for the scholarly articles criterion 
through the submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria discussed above. Although he submits 
evidence for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional 
grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.13 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work reflects the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
io Id. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 lcf. 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
the Petitioner has experience as a master mariner, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 14 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. we need not 
consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6503114 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a "polygraph examiner, researcher, and instructor," seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks to "open [a] polygraph testing and consulting company in the State of Florida to 
assist law enforcement ... ; research and publish on [ matters concerning the] polygraph; develop 
special courses and practical manuals and educate future professionals in polygraph examination; and 
participate in the development and implementation of the newest technologies for lie detection." The 
Petitioner asserts: "he is the only one professional in his field [in Russia] that assists in testing on sex 
crimes and allegations of sexual misconduct and harassment, and narcotics investigations." 
The Petitioner entered the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant tourist in June 2016; at the time he 
filed the petition in November 2016, he was still in the United States without employment! 
authorization. After obtaining employment authorization, the Petitioner began working for 
I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to meet nine of these criteria. The 
Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets seven other evidentiary criteria, to be 
discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has 
satisfied two criteria (pertaining to scholarly articles and judging). 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In 2016, the Petitioner received th~ I Award from the American Polygraph 
Association (AP A). The award does not recognize excellence in the field of endeavor, but rather "loyalty, 
professionalism and dedication to the polygraph profession." A copy of the Petitioner's nomination form 
identifies various achievements, but does not show which of these factors were the most relevant in the 
deliberations resulting in the Petitioner's receipt of the prize. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "It is the Petitioner's position that the~---------~ 
Award is nationally and internationally recognized and [the Petitioner] was selected from a large number 
of nominees and selected by the distinguished experts in the field of polygraphy." However, he does not 
submit evidence to corroborate these claims. 
In I I 2015, the Council of Veterans of the Central Office of the Russian Ministry of Internal 
Affairs awarded the Petitioner "the order 'For nobleness of thoughts and deeds."' The award certificate 
refers to the Petitioner as a "polygraph examiner," but does not explain the circumstances underlying the 
award. The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that the award is nationally or internationally 
recognized, or that he received the award for excellence in his field. (There is no presumption that an 
award from a government entity is nationally or internationally recognized.) 
Onl I, 2016, the day after the Petitioner arrived in the United States, thel !Peace Foundation 
presented the Petitioner with "the Order for Dedication, Courage and Humanism." The Petitioner does 
not point to any evidence that awards from that 'l I Foundation" are 
nationally or internationally recognized, or that the award was for excellence in the field. The Petitioner 
likewise does not establish the criteria for this award, or the Foundation's competence to recognize 
excellence in the field of polygraphy. The Foundation officials named on the award certificate include 
an artist and a cosmonaut, with no indication of their expertise in polygraphy. 
The Petitioner has also supplemented the record with evidence of awards and recognitions that he received 
after the petition's filing date. These awards cannot establish that the Petitioner met the eligibility 
requirements for this immigrant classification as of the filing date of his petition, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). See Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of the APA and the British and European Polygraph Association (BEPA), but 
as noted by the Director, the membership requirements for those associations essentially amount to 
holding the proper occupational credentials, not outstanding achievements as required per the plain 
language of this criterion. The Petitioner did not further address these membership requirements on 
appeal. 
In02016, the Eurasian Polygraph Association (EPA) named the Petitioner an honorary member of 
that association. The EPA' s charter indicates that honorary membership is available to "[p ]rominent 
domestic and foreign scientists, designers and specialists who made a significant contribution to the 
science and practice of polygraphy." 
The EPA's letter to the Petitioner reads, in part: 
3 
Our Association and the international polygraph community know you as a prominent 
polygraph examiner, lecturer and promoter of polygraphology, providing comprehensive 
methodological assistance to polygraph examiners of Kazakhstan and Russia. 
This title is only bestowed to polygraph exammers, who have made significant 
contributions to the profession. 
The Director acknowledged the EPA' s reference to "significant contributions," but found that the 
organization did not identify the "significant contributions" that qualified him for honorary membership. 
Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of 
proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 
(2d. Cir. 1990) 
We agree with the Director that the submitted evidence is too vague to establish that the Petitioner's 
honorary EPA membership constitutes membership in an association in the field which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner has submitted translated copies of Russian-language articles, some published after the 
petition's filing date. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that four of these articles meet the requirements 
of the regulatory criterion. We will focus, here, on those four articles. 
Two articles, published in Komsomolskaya Pravda v /spanii (KP I) in 2014 and Kl erk in 2016, quoted the 
Petitioner at length regarding various uses of polygraphy. The Director found that these articles are not 
about the Petitioner. Also, the articles lack the required author credits. Klerk is identified as "the largest 
site for accountants," indicating that it is neither a general-interest publication nor a professional or trade 
publication in the Petitioner's field of polygraphy. As such, the Petitioner has not shown how Klerk 
qualifies, for the purposes of this petition, as a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner contends that Komsomolskaya Pravda (KP) qualifies as major media in Russia, but the 
submitted article appeared in an edition published in Spain (in the Russian language), while the Petitioner 
was "on a working visit [to] Barcelona." Therefore, the evidence relating to KP's circulation in Russia 
does not establish that its offshoot KP/ qualifies as major media in Spain, where only a fraction of the 
population reads Russian. The article's headline indicates that the target audience is "Russian-speaking 
4 
residents of the Iberian Peninsula". The Petitioner has not established that KP/ qualifies as major media, 
or that he has been the subject of articles published in KP in Russia. 
A I I 2016 article on the Russian I I website called the Petitioner a "famous Russian 
polygraph examiner" who "will tell how to use a polygraph in the fight against marital infidelity." The 
Director found that this article includes "one paragraph about the petitioner," but is deficient because it 
does not identify the author as required. The Director also noted that the site describes itself as open to 
public posts "without registration and moderation," and therefore "cannot be viewed as an authoritative 
source of information." When a website allows readers to post material anonymously, and without any 
evident quality control ( such as editors or moderators), there are no assurances about the reliability of the 
content on that site. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
Inl I 2016, the online publication I I reported that the Petitioner, "one of the most 
famous Russian polygraph examiners ... , was elected ~fthe National Association 
of Polygraph examiners." However, we note that there is no credited author, as required under this 
criterion. In addition, a translated 2018 printout from the home page of I I does not 
provide useful information about the size of its readership, or even the purpose of the publication. 
Categories of embedded links include "Catalog of the political system of society," "History," "Theory," 
and "Modem Russia"; the website's name translates as "State and Power." 
The Petitioner has not shown that he was the subject of published material in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion, but we disagree. 
In I I 2015, the APA appointed the Petitioner "as a member of the 2015-2016 I.___ ___ _. 
~--~-----~" This letter, only two sentences long, did not explain the duties of the 
committee. But a subsequent letter from 2017 indicated that one of the committee's roles is "reviewing 
nominations for the APA Annual Awards and choosing the best nominee for the award." This 
information is sufficient to establish that committee members judge the work of others in the context of 
those awards. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
5 
In order to satisfy this regulation, a petitioner must establish that not only has *he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner states that he is the only polygraph examiner in Russia who "conduct[s] all types of 
polygraph testing," and that his "other important contribution was introduction of American standards of 
the polygraph profession to Russian polygraph examiners." The Petitioner does not explain how these 
activities are riginal Tntributions. The Petitioner did not create the techniques he uses; rather, he took 
classes at the Polygraph Academy, where he learned the "American standards" that he later 
sought to transplant to Russia. Leaming, teaching, and advocating existing methods do not amount to 
original contributions. 
The Petitioner also stated that a "significant achievement was as a.__ _______ __,ofthe National 
Polygraph Association [NP A] of Russia when [he] created the international partnership with [the] British 
and European Polygraph Association," and that his "most significant contribution ... was an affiliation 
of the National Polygraph Association with the American Polygraph Association." The president of the 
NP A stated that, by facilitating these affiliations, the Petitioner "played a critical and fundamental role in 
the development of the National Polygraph Association and Russian polygraphology in general." The 
importance of the Petitioner's role within a particular organization falls under a separate criterion, 
discussed further below. The record does not show exactly what the Petitioner did to align the NP A with 
the BEP A and the AP A, or explain how this development has major significance to the field as a whole, 
rather than to one particular organization in that field. 
Cited as another example of a contribution of major significance, the Petitioner delivered a "prepared 
report on usage and application of polygraph" to th~ I in May 2016. 
The Petitioner does not explain how this action was significant to the field as a whole, or had a discernible 
impact beyond the local level. 
The Petitioner wrote a series of booklets, ranging in length from 16 to 32 pages, all published in 2016, 
relating to polygraph history and techniques. The Petitioner refers to these publications as "scholarly 
level textbooks." The Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish the major significance of these 
publications. For example, the Petitioner did not show that the books are widely used in training 
polygraph examiners. Also, the record does not contain the books themselves, only translated title pages, 
and therefore the record does not reveal the extent to which the booklets consist of original material rather 
than compilations of information already available within the field. For example, some titles refer to 
examination techniques, but it is not clear whether the Petitioner developed these techniques or simply 
described methods that were already in use. 
The editor in chief of a scholarly journal stated that two of the Petitioner's articles received "a lot of 
positive responses and live interest among the Journal readers." The record does not contain objective 
evidence to show that the Petitioner's published work had attracted any attention before he filed the 
petition in late 2016. The Petitioner stated that a small number of citations appeared in 2017 and 2018, 
well after the filing date. The only citing article that the Petitioner submitted to support this claim 
appeared in 2018 in an APA-published journal, Polygraph & Forensic Credibility Assessment. That 
article cited one of the Petitioner's AP A Magazine articles to support the assertion that the use of forensic 
6 
polygraph examinations in Russia has increased since 2002. This single citation, in support of a statistic 
drawn from historical data, is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's work has had major 
significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that his publications are available to researchers at a number oflibraries. 
However, as noted above, the evidence does not demonstrate that this availability of his published work 
has led to an impact upon other polygraphers or otherwise constitutes a contribution of major significance. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not provide enough information to show how his contributions 
were both original and of major significance. The Director stated that the Petitioner did not establish the 
extent to which others in the field use the Petitioner's original work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his work would not be "posted on government sites, or in electronic 
libraries ... without ... detailed and sophisticated peer review." The Petitioner does not show that the 
libraries in question only accept materials that contain contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also maintains that he is Russia's most versatile polygraph operator, with "unique expertise 
on polygraph testing and ability to detect and neutralize polygraph countermeasures." The Petitioner's 
evaluation of his skill set does not establish its major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also points to his writings and his educational efforts. These activities can provide the 
means to influence the field at large, but as noted above, the Petitioner has not shown that his work has 
actually resulted in that influence. 
For all of the reasons described above, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director granted this criterion, and we concur. The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from 
several different publications, most of which qualify as scholarly. We note that the submitted excerpts 
from APA Magazine do not share the hallmarks of peer-reviewed scholarly journals that are evident from 
other articles in the record. Apart from superficial differences such as very large type, AP A Magazine 
does not refer to peer review of submissions; and there are errors and anomalies of various kinds that are 
not consistent with professional, scholarly publications. For example, one submitted page ends with the 
unhyphenated word fragment "commer" ( apparently the beginning of "commercial"), and the articles 
themselves include a number of grammatical, typographical, and formatting errors that do not reflect the 
strict editorial review typically seen in scholarly journals. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied this criterion because the EPA invited him to give the 
keynote speech at anC] 201 7 conference in I ~ A scholarly conference, however, is not an 
artistic exhibition or showcase. Furthermore, when the Petitioner made this claim in November 2016, the 
7 
conference had not yet occurred; the expectation of future display cannot establish eligibility at the time 
of filing. Granting the criterion based on the invitation alone would have been premature, not least 
because subsequent submissions contain no evidence that the Petitioner actually gave the address or even 
attended the conference. 
The Petitioner does not repeat or defend this claim on appeal, and has therefore abandoned the issue. 
See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was.__ _______ ___. of the NP A The president of the NP A 
indicated the Petitioner was responsible "for the development of the [NP A's] Standards of Practice and 
Code of Ethic[s]," which "became a milestone for the development of the polygraph community in 
Russia." 
The Petitioner states: "For additional information about the NPA, please visit its official website, 
https://polygraphassociation.ru/about-us.html." According to that website, the NP A "was officially 
registered on May 26, 2016," less than six months before the Petitioner filed the petition in early 
November 2016. 
The Director requested evidence that the NP A has a distinguished reputation. In response, the Petitioner 
resubmitted a copy of a letter from the president of the NPA, and a printout from the NP A's website. On 
appeal, the Petitioner submits a new letter from that official, calling the NPA "Russia's leading polygraph 
association." Evidence from the NP A and its officials is not evidence that the organization has a 
distinguished reputation outside the organization itself 
The Petitioner also claims to have performed in a critical role for th...__ ______ ~~~-------' I !Russia's Ministry of Education and Science. The 
Petitioner conducted a four-day "advanced training course for polygraph examiners" for that entity in 
October 2015. The Petitioner did not show that this particular office has a distinguished reputation. 
Also, a letter from the agency, stating that the Petitioner "played a key role in our educational project," is 
not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for the entity. The 
Petitioner has not shown the extent, if any, to which his training class improved the office's practices or 
the outcome of its endeavors. 
Because of the above deficiencies, the Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
8 
The Petitioner has not submitted first-hand documentation ofremuneration, such as tax documents, pay 
receipts or bank documents. Instead, he submitted two letters from entities that engaged his services. 
An 172016 letter from the chief accountant of a Russian company called I I paid the Petitioner 
265~bles (apparently per month) "as an invited polygraph examiner." The letter states that the 
"average monthly salary on this position in the Russian Federation makes up 70,000 Rubles." The letter 
identifies two online sources for the average monthly salary figure, but the Petitioner did not submit 
printouts from those websites or identify the specific pages containing the numbers. 
A letter attributed to an official of the Russian Ministry of Education and Science invited the Petitioner 
to present the training course described above, and offered him 9000 rubles per hour. The letter noted 
that "the regular hourly rate for the lecturers is RUR 2500." The letter is worded as an invitation to 
perform the services in the future, but, as the Director noted, the letter is dated more than a month after 
the training session took place. 
Later, the Petitioner submitted a printout from Head Hunter, a Russian website that hosts job 
announcements. The printout consists of two job openings for polygraph examiners, one with a starting 
salary of 50,000 rubles, the other showing a range of 50,000 to 100,000 rubles (the intervals are 
unspecified). This small sampling of certain available positions is insufficient to establish a basis to 
determine that the Petitioner's asserted salary is high compared to others in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted a printout, from Trud, identified as "a search engine that searches for jobs 
and resumes." The submitted translation includes several tables and charts, including one that shows 
51,667 rubles as the average monthly salary for a polygraph examiner in thel I area. The 
accompanying Russian-language printout itself: however, does not include any of the tables or figures 
shown in the purported translation. Instead, it includes a pie chart and a bar graph, showing figures 
entirely different from those in the purported translation. Thus, the figures provided in English are 
unsubstantiated. 
The Director found that "no authoritative evidence was provided [to show] the actual wages received by 
the petitioner." On appeal, the Petitioner resubmits copies of previously submitted documents, but offers 
no new substantive response to the Director's findings except to state that a typographical error on the 
Ministry's letter does not invalidate the information on that letter. 
As noted above, the appeal does not address the Director's most significant finding, which is that the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence that he actually received the payments described in the letters. The 
wage comparisons are also highly problematic, for reasons described above. Rather than establish his 
total income as a polygraph examiner, the Petitioner has relied on incomplete and questionable 
information relating to two specific jobs. 
The submitted evidence is not sufficient, in terms of quality or quantity, to establish that the Petitioner 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the 
field. 
9 
ff the above standards do not readily apply to the beneficia,y's occupation, the petitioner 
may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficia,y's eligibility. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) 
The Petitioner cites various letters as "comparable evidence," but the Petitioner does not specify to what 
the evidence is "comparable," nor does the Petitioner show that the standard criteria do not readily apply 
to his occupation. (By making claims under nine of those criteria, the Petitioner essentially claimed that 
they apply to his occupation.) 
The letters, from individuals who have trained, worked with, or employed the Petitioner in various 
capacities, attest to his skills and character, but offer no relevant information beyond what the ten 
regulatory criteria already cover. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. It is of 
some concern that much of the claimed evidence of acclaim, such as media coverage, arose in a very 
short period of time between the Petitioner's departure from Russia and the preparation of the petition. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7072279 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business owner and consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that the Petitioner founded the comP,any, I I located at her 
residence in June 2018 and also works as a consultant forl hnl l California 
since December 2018.1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled the criteria relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record 
reflects that major media published material about the Petitioner. In addition, the Petitioner judged 
investment/business competitions. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner met the 
published material and judging criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming eligibility for a third criterion. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she meets this criterion based on her critical role as a business 
development director at .__ ________ __,2 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 3 
1 See the Petitioner's cover letter in response to the director's request for evidence. 
2 The Petitioner does not argue that she performed in a leading role for 0, nor does the record reflect that she held such 
a leadership position. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
In her brief: the Petitioner references an unsigned letter purportedly from I . I founder of D However, as the letter is not signed, it has diminished probative value, and the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate thatl I authored the letter. Notwithstanding, the letter praises the Petitioner 
~out providing specific information showing that she contributed to the successes or standing of LJ5 Moreover, the letter makes broad assertions without demonstrating how the Petitioner caused 
significant outcomes toOs activities. 
For instance, the letter claims that "[ t ]he value [ the Petitioner] has brought to the development of D 
and our portfolio companies can't be overstated, and her efforts have driven us to being the leading 
investment fund in the robotics and hardware industry." The letter, however, does not elaborate on 
what the Petitioner developed and how she contributed toObeing the leading investment fund, as 
claimed. Moreover, although the letter lists several of her responsibilities, such as developing 
investment focus and strategy, managing external communications, and presenting at events, it again 
does not point to specific instances where the Petitioner's actions resulted in successes for the 
company. 
Further, the Petitioner argues that "as the sole director of the company's initial investment fund, [her 
role] absolutely qualifies under this criteria [sic]." While the letter indicates that the Petitioner "was I I first employee, and for a while she remained its only employee responsible for all functions of 
the fund," the letter does not show that this role resulted in critical or important outcomes foQ In 
addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that being the first employee, as well as the only employee 
for a period of time, automatically establishes the critical nature of a role. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show that she performed in a critical role forD 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the D enjoys a distinguished relutation. 6 The r~ 
reflects that the Petitioner submitted screenshots from various websites about_ I andLJ 
Although the screenshots indicate □, s investment funds, as well as investments in different 
companies, the Petitioner did not establish the significance of these business actions. For instance, the 
Petitioner provided screenshots from crunchbase.com showing thatO has 25 investments, 5 lead 
investments, and the "most recent investment was on Sep 13, 2018, when they invested $63M in 
I t' Again, the Petitioner did not explain the relevance of these characteristics or demonstrate 
how they indicate D s distinguished reputation. The Petitioner, for example, did not include 
evidence showing the general field's view of the company or how its reputation or standing compares 
to similar investment companies, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
4 The letter is dated approximately 20 months prior to the filing of her petition and references a previously filed 
nonimmigrant 0-1 petition. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
3 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has received some media coverage, judged a few recent competitions, and has 
some business and investment experience, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing 
that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 5106104 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hospitality and culinary branding specialist, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "has occupied senior management and executive roles in concept branding 
and operations management" "in the high-end restaurant industry," including the following past positions: 
• Director of OperatiolJ.l.il.-=-==--=-r------'-, 2003-2005 
• Managing D,..-ai=re"""c=to=r"'"'L. __ ~___J 2005-2012 
• Consultant, 2012-2014 
• Chief Operating Officer ~------------' 2014-2016 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was the restaurant manager for I 
intends to continue that work while also serving as the managing partner o~ I I Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to: 
• (iii) Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; 
2 
• (viii) A leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix) High remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director then proceeded to a final merits determination, and found that chronological gaps in the 
record precluded a finding of sustained acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred by examining each piece of evidence in 
isolation, rather than in the context of the record as a whole. We agree that the final merits 
determination is deficient in this regard, but there is a more fundamental issue. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner only satisfies two of the ten evidentiary criteria, 
and therefore the record does not warrant a final merits determination. Specifically, although we agree 
that the Petitioner has established his leading role for distinguished organizations and his relatively 
high remuneration, we do not agree with the Director regarding the two criteria discussed below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
To qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international 
distribution. 
Several articles mention the Petitioner briefly or in passing, and therefore are not about him as the 
regulation requires: 
• Local publication Eater I I previewed 'IL -----.-------,_ ______ ---,11 
Spring 2018." The article includes two sentences about ~I _____ ~I and identified the 
Petitioner as one of two "key players." 
• Another local I I publication, Indulge, offered its own list of new restaurants. The four-
sentence segment aboutl I identifies the Petitioner as a managing partner and quotes him 
regarding one of the restaurant's dishes. 
• A five-sentence piece in The Caterer, with no author credit, reported that I 
O I' The final sentence identifies the Petitioner as the re~s-t-au_r_a_n-t'_s_n_e_w_g_e_n-er_a__,l 
manager. 
• Big Hospitaliti reportr on a fire at the Drestaur.mt in I I The article identifies the 
Petitioner as managing director" and quoted him regarding the fire's impact on 
customers. 
• The Spanish-language magazine Selecta published an article aboutl A four-
sentence passage in the 435-word article identifies him as a shareholder who "has been working 
with large groups ofrestaurants in all parts of the world for decades." 
The remaining two articles focus on the Petitioner, but the record does not show that these articles 
appeared in major media rather than local niche publications. An article in Haute Living states that the 
3 
Petitioner "has held a lead role in the hospitality industry for the past 25 years and has been transformative 
to the international culinary scene," and is "[c]onsidered the 'go-to guy' when restaurant brands are 
looking to internationalize a culinary concept." 
A printout in the record states: "Haute Livin is a leadin network of luxu lifest le publications, with 
bimonthly regional editions in,___~--------------------' The article about 
the Petitioner appeared in the .__ _ __,edition; the record does not establish that the article appeared in 
other editions, or otherwise show nationwide publication or promotion of the article. The same printout 
refers to "140,000 bimonthly editions," but this appears to refer to the total circulation of all local editions. 
The Petitioner did not establish that the I I edition of Haute Living qualifies as major media in its own 
right, or that the article about the Petitioner appeared nationally. 
A "Website Analysis Overview Report" indicates that Haute Living' s website has a "Global Rank" of 
314,311, and a "Category Rank" of 17,268. The Petitioner did not establish the rgnificrce of these 
figures, which appear to apply to Haute Living as a collective whole, rather than the edition. 
An interview with the Petitioner, with an introductory biographical sketch, appeared in Toys for Boys. 
The magazine's Instagram account shows the phrase "International Publication! I 
but there is considerable evidence that the article about the Petitioner L-----,-.,....----,--....,..r--7-..,..! appeared in a local edition. The printout of the article includes a copyright notice for "Toys for 
Boys~----,-~' and an advertisement for .__ __________ __,' Other background 
information refers repeatedly to LJ and no other location. "Social Media Analytics" compare the 
publication's Instagram following to those oflocall !publications. 
The "Website Analysis Overview Report" for Toys for Boys shows a "Global Rank" of 10,636,815, and 
less than 5000 monthly visits, resulting in a "Category Rank" that reads "N/ A." 
For the above reasons, we withdraw the Director's finding that professional or major trade publications 
or other major media have published material about the Petitioner. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have met this criterion. The Director requested additional evidence, 
stating that the Petitioner's initial evidence was deficient. The Petitioner's response to the request for 
evidence did not address the "contributions" criterion, focusing instead on the other three claimed criteria. 
Nevertheless, in the decision notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. 
4 
Further examination of the record does not show that the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of the 
criterion. 
The Petitioner asserted that his "state of the art culinary and immersive, experiential dining experiences 
... have provoked widespread commentary, received notice and recognition from others working in the 
field, and been analyzed by experts who have detailed the impact of his work on subsequent 
establishments." Beyond the published articles discussed above, the submitted evidence of the 
significance of the Petitioner's contributions consists of letters from individuals who have worked with 
the Petitioner in various capacities. 
The owner of1 l states that the Petitioner oversaw "the creation ofl Is stunning 
decor, interactive dining experience, and distinctive open kitchen." The executive chairman of1 I I I states that the Petitioner's "strategic vision was incor orated into eve hase of 
1 6 dining experience ,, and that, durilng the retitioner' s tenrur~e~,__ __________ ____, 
emerged as the leadingc:::J restaurant in " while other~-~ restaurants "have emerged as the 
top culinary companies in their respective categories and have contributed significantly to the increase of 
our holding company's annual revenues." 
While employed byD the Petitioner arranged for that company to become a client of th~ I I I described as providing "Public Relations, Events, Marketing and Social Networking." The owner 
and public relations director of the I I offers general praise for the Petitioner's abilities, stating, 
for instance, that he is "a distinct expert in hospitality branding" whose "innovation, creativity and 
analytical skills build[] solid brands." 
Al I restaurateur, who has worked with the Petitioner "many times over the last few years," states 
that the Petitioner "has different approaches to brand development and structure and a deep understanding 
of the right measurement of brand equity, metrics, and identity systems. He is definitely a prominent 
'crafter' of specialized brand stories and positioning statements." 
The letters offer the general assertion that the Petitioner has unique talents that have contributed to the 
success of several restaurant ventures, but they do not show the impact that the Petitioner has had outside 
of his specific restaurant projects. The Haute Living article indicates that the Petitioner "has been 
transformative to the international culinary scene," but does not elaborate except to identify some of his 
successful restaurant projects. 
The success of those projects led the Director to conclude that the Petitioner has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. Such roles fall under 
a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the Director duly took account of the Petitioner's 
claims in that regard, but the satisfaction of any one given criterion does not imply that the Petitioner has 
met others as well. As such, success in the restaurant industry is not inherently an original contribution 
of major significance. 
The Petitioner has not identified specific, original contributions that have had an impact not only on his 
own restaurant projects, but on the wider hospitality field. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10299398 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 28, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tennis club, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a professional tennis coach, as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Beneficiary met the initial evidentiary criteria, it did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim or demonstrate that he was among those at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reconsider; the Director dismissed the motion. The 
Petitioner now appeals the Director's dismissal of the motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for the 
requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision on motion and remand for further review of the record and a new 
decision. 
The regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 103. 3( a)( 1 )(i) states that when denying a petition, the Director shall exp lain 
in writing the specific reasons for denial. The Director dismissed the motion stating, in part, that the 
Beneficiary did not establish that the decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of record at the 
time. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points out that the Director issued a one-page decision and did not address 
any arguments presented by the Petitioner on motion. The Petitioner also notes that the Director stated 
that "[t]his motion is not accompanied by new evidence ." The Petitioner asserts that it was not 
required to submit new evidence since it filed a motion to reconsider and in accordance with 
1 Appeals filed by representatives must contain a new, properly executed Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as 
Attorney or Accredited Representative. 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a). As we advised the Petitioner in our April 6, 2020 
correspondence , the Form G-28 filed on appeal was not properly executed . Accordingly we consider the Petitioner to be 
self-represented in this matter. 
requirements of a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), the Petitioner explained why the 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw and the evidence ofrecord. 
Upon review, we agree that the Director did not provide any analysis or address the Petitioner's 
arguments on motion to explain why the Director's decision was correct based upon application of 
law or policy and evidence in the record at the time. When denying a motion, the Director must fully 
explain the reasons in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and 
provide an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. Cf Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected party a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Therefore, we are remanding the 
case to the Director for further review and to sufficiently explain why the motion did not establish that 
the decision was incorrect. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7122759 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pharmaceutical company , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
establish her sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The Director further found that the Petitioner did 
not establish that the Beneficiary would be continuing to work in her area of extraordinary ability in 
the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it established by a preponderance of the evidence that the 
Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability and maintains that the Director failed to 
consider the totality of the evidence. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a publicly-traded pharmaceutical company with a portfolio ofl f drug 
candidates, employs the Beneficiary as its I I I I Chief of Staff to its CEO. 1 .__ _________________ ____. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following three criteria: judging the work of others in 
her field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi); and performing in a leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
record reflects that the Beneficiary served as a peer reviewer for at least one manuscript submitted for 
publication to a professional journal and co-chaired al I Seminar in her area of 
1 The Beneficiary's job title at the time of filing was.__ _______________ __. and Chief of 
Staff to the CEO." The record reflects that she received a promotion to the "Associate Director" position in Febrnary 2019 
shortly after the petition was filed. 
2 
expertise, and therefore satisfied the criterion related to judging. In addition, the Petitioner provided 
evidence that the Beneficiary has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Cancer 
Research, Journal of Biological Chemistry, and Nature Medicine. 
Finally, we agree with the Director's determination that the Beneficiary satisfies the criterion related 
to leading or critical roles based on her employment with the Petitioner. The Petitioner has provided 
detailed information explaining the Beneficiary's role, its influence on management decision-making, 
and its resulting impact on the outcome of the organization's activities. Further, the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish that it enjoys a distinguished reputation in its industry. 
Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability 
in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received her bachelor of technolo harmaceutical 
chemistry and technology from the University of--------~------~ in 2010. 
In 2015, she received her doctor of philosophy in~ ______ ,......from the University ofi I 
at I L where she was the recipient of several scholarships and fellowships for academic 
excellence and research progress. While engaged in her studies she held internships with I I 
(2008) andl 1(2013). After completing her Ph.D., the Beneficiary 
worked as a postdoctoral research associate at I !Medicine from 2015 to 2016. The 
Petitioner then hired the Beneficiary in 2016 and, as noted, employed her as its.__ ______ __. 
~------------~ at the time it filed the petition. 
As mentioned above, the Director found that the Beneficiary has judged the work of others within her 
field, authored scholarly articles, and holds a leading or critical role within the petitioning company. 
We have also considered other relevant evidence such as the Beneficiary's awards, her membership 
in a professional association, and the recognition she has received based on her original scientific 
contributions to her field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are 
reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Regarding the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others in her field, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the 
extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1121-22. The record reflects that the Beneficiary completed one manuscript review for the Journal of 
Biological Chemistry in 201 7. The Petitioner also provided evidence that she was offered an honorary 
position on the editorial board of International Physiology Journal, although the record does not 
reflect whether she accepted this position. Participation in the peer review process does not 
automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international acclaim at the very 
top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in his field, such as evidence that she 
has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, or 
served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, the Petitioner has not 
established that the Beneficiary's peer review experience places her among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the Beneficiary also judged the work of her peers based on her 
appointment as co-chair of the 2016 I I Seminar c=J) on I I, which 
required her to evaluate the posters and oral presentations of potential participants. The Petitioner 
maintains that the conferences and seminars organized by I I are 
"some of the most prestigious in the scientific community" and that "only the top scientists from 
around the world are invited to D: events." Several of the submitted expert opinion letters comment 
on the Beneficiary'sOco-chairing experience. For example,! I of the University 
of Dstates that "[b ]eing elected to chair ac=] is an extremely prestigious feat for any scientist 
and is reflective of the high regard for [the Petitioner's scientific accom lish~ within her peer 
group and the scientific community." Further,.__ _______ _. of L_J states that the 
Beneficiary'sc=Jco-chair role was "an extremely prestigious feat for a scientist at her level." 
The Petitioner provided the itinerary from the D event that the Beneficiary co-chaired, which is 
described in the materials as "a unique forum for graduate students, post-docs, and other scientists 
with comparable levels of experience and education." The description indicates that the D was 
held in conjunction with the i I and that the conference and seminar events have 
separate applications. This evidence, indicating that attendance at the seminar event isr1,im.4:ed to 
students and less experienced scientists, does not support the Petitioner's claim that the L_J is an 
exclusive invitation-only event reserved for re tof ◄ scientists in a specific field. The record does not, 
for example, include information from the outlining their criteria for evaluatin~electing 
potential c::::J chairs. 3 We acknowledge that the Petitioner's selection as co-chair for a l__Jevent is 
a notable professional accomplishment and indicates that she has received recognition from the 
scientific community in her area of research. Howeverf the ridence related to this role is insufficient 
to support a finding that her experience chairing one session is indicative of her being in the 
3 We note that the website of--~-------- indicates that its seminar programs are "organized by and for 
young investigators" and provide "a way to interact with leaders who may later serve as mentors." See https:/A O ) 
(last accessed on Jan. 27, 2020). This information suggests that the chairs selected to organize the seminar events are also 
young investigators, similar to the graduate students and postdoctoral associates who attend them. We also note that the 
main page of th.c::=] indicates that the organization has over 3001 levents scheduled for 2020, suggesting 
that hundreds of scientists chair or co-chair these events annually. 
4 
small percentage at the very top of her field, nor does it not demonstrate she has enjoyed national or 
international acclaim based on her role in co-chairing this two-day event. 
Likewise, the Beneficiary's publication of scientific research does not automatically place her at the 
top of the field. The Petitioner emphasized that the Beneficiary published six papers in leading peer­
reviewed journals, authored two invited book chapters and a review article, and has been invited to 
deliver several oral presentations at conferences. 4 The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that 
this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's articles can be an indicator to determine 
the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been 
sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary 
may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that other researchers have been 
influenced by it. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to 
Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. At the time of filing, the Petitioner offered evidence that the 
Beneficiary's most-cited articles had been cited 46 and 41 times, respectively. While the citations, 
both individually and collectively, show that field has noticed her work, she did not establish that such 
rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim in her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not show that the citations to her research represent attention at a level consistent with being among 
small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that, particularly for a relatively young scientist, "it is not helpful to 
compare various scientists' total citations, because this type of analysis does not take into account the 
scientists' differing sub-areas of specialty or their career paths." Further, the Petitioner claims that 
"there is no true comparison to another one of [the Beneficiary's] peers because her work launched a 
new, unique area of researching concerning the role of I I in 
cancer." The Petitioner emphasizes that the quality of the citations to her work demonstrates the 
impact of her research and establishes that she is at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner places particular emphasis on the publication of the Beneficiary' sl ~related 
research in Cancer Research and Journal of Biological Chemistry, and the fact that she was invited to 
contribute a co-authored book chapter to J I Biology and Pathobiology (3rd Edition), which 
was edited by a Nobel Prize laureate in this field. The Petitioner provides evidence that Can~ 
Research is ranked in the top 8% of all oncology journals in impact factor and emphasizes that LJ I I confirmed that the Beneficiary was the first c=Jgraduate student to publish a first-
authored paper in that journal in 16 years. I I's letter also notes that Journal of Biological 
Chemistry is "a prestigious highly cited journal" that is "known to have published one of the most 
highly cited articles of all time." 
The record reflects that the Beneficiar 's co-authored article ' 
,__ ________________________ _, was highlighted by Journal of 
4 The Beneficiary's submitted Google Scholar citation history included 17 publications authored by her between 2011 and 
2017. The six peer-reviewed research aiiicles referenced in the Petitioner's letter, along with the Beneficiary's co-authored 
review article and one of her book chapters, are the publications that have received multiple citations from others. Of the 
remaining nine publications listed, one a11icle had one citation, and the rest had no citations. 
5 
Biological Chemistry as a "Paper of the Week" which according to the publication's website means 
that it was selected by the editors "as representing the top 2% of JBC papers in overall importance." 
While this is a notable distinction for the paper, it does not lead to a conclusion that all of the papers' 
authors were similarly recognized as being at the top of the field. Notably, the record contains 
evidence thatc=]s website published an article titled ~--------------~which 
focuses on the research published in the Petitioner's 2013 Journal of Biological Chemistry article. 
This same article was published on the websites News Medica (news-medica.net) and Science Daily 
(sciencedaily.com), but the evidence does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary herself has garnered 
substantial acclaim from this research. The article attributes the discovery of "a new role for n I t to I I ... and co-workers" and contains multiple quotes from .... I---~--' 
regarding the study's findings. Although the Beneficiary contributed to the research and is 
acknowledged as a co-author, the media reports do not single her out or specifically acknowledge her 
for her findings. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the "Paper of the Week" distinction or 
media coverage reflects that her original scientific contribution garnered her significant attention or 
indicates her status as an individual who has received "sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Further, publication in a highly ranked journal in-and-of-itself: however, does not indicate a 
petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim; rather, the high ranking or impact factor is 
reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, show the influence of any 
particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has had an impact within the field. Here, 
while publishing articles in highly ranked journals is noteworthy, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's overall publication record, including these articles, demonstrates the required 
sustained national or international acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See H.R. Rep. No. 
at 59; section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Similarly, with respect to the Beneficiary's contribution to a book edited by a Nobel Prize laureate, 
we agree with one expert's opinion that her invitation to co-author the chapter "speaks to her high 
scientific caliber." The Petitioner notes that "only 100" scientists in a sub-field with over 1,000 
researchers who study I I biology were asked to make co-author chapters. However, the 
record does not show that the contribution of this book chapter, which, as of the date of filing had not 
been cited by other researchers, is indicative of her place among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field. 
In addition to submitting evidence related to her publications, the Petitioner provided letters from 
experts who have weighed in on the importance of the Beneficiary's research rgarrng the role of 
in cancer. I I a professor at states that the 
._B_e_n_e_f-1c-i-ar_y_'_s_c_o_n_tr-ib_u_t-io_n_s-"h_a_v_e-en_a__.bled development of a new and stnifyant field ofi I 
research."! I a professor of medicinal chemistry at states that although the 
role of l fin cancer progression is an active topic of interest in the field, "[the Beneficiary's] 
work was the first to establish that ' and 
. " He states that she made "a .__ _________________________ __, 
milestone discovery as it brings to prominence a field of research that was previously not well­
established" and notes that the data she provided "can help guide and optimize drug development 
decisions." I I at the National Cancer Institute, states that 
6 
he "can confidently place [the Beneficiary's] discoveries among some of the most critical novel 
findings in the I Vcancer space" and indicates that he has cited the Beneficiary's work in 
his own co-authored articles. I I who mentored the Beneficiary during her doctoral 
studies at C7ind was one of her co-authors in this research area, stated that her discovery of 
previously unknown signaling mechanisms ofl lare "remarkable" and "have changed our 
classical views ofl ] biology." He farther states that he, as the laboratory head, has been 
invited to present data from their research at over 25 oral presentations worldwide" thus shoring the I 
"far-reaching impact" of the study. ~----~~ of thel IUniversity of Ireland 
states that the Beneficiary's findings in this are "can offer development of additional, therapeutic 
solutions" an1 prlduced data sets that "will be invaluable resources to the entire scientific community 
in the area of and cancer." 
These statements provide support for a finding that the Beneficiary made a significant and original 
scientific contribution but do not necessarily support a finding that she achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim as a result of such contribution. For example, whilel I indicates that 
he has been invited to present their joint research at over 25 conferences throughout the United States 
and worldwide and continues to receive invitations to do so, the Petitioner indicates that the 
Beneficiary herself was invited to give oral presentations related to this research at four U.S. 
conferences between 2012 and 2014 and has not received the same level ofrecognition for the work. 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary also made an original contribution in the field ofl I 
cancer research during her time atl !Medicine which has resulted in additional acclaim 
and recognition in the field of oncolo . The record reflects that she co-authored a "collaborative 
paper" titled ' 
published in Nature Medicine in 2017 that had been cited 41 times as of the 
date of filing in January 2019. 5 .__ ________ __. assistant professor of I __ I 
I IMedicine, who mentored the Beneficiary when she was a postdoctoral associate, notes that 
Nature Medicine is "one of the top 5 journals in the field of medicine" and notes that "contributing 
author, in this nub)jcatjon" included several "world-renowned! !cancer researchers." I I c=J,. I, and I ~-However, the record does not reflect how being 
one of 32 co-authors of this Nature Medicine article resulted in or contributed to the Beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
A letter froJ I professor of biomedical research at University ofD who worked 
with the Beneficiary during his previous tenure atl I College, explains her findings in this 
field of research and asserts that "[the Petitioner's] project during her postdoctoral work is highly 
meaningful to the advancement of precision medicine inl I cancer." He emphasizes tlat Nature 
Medicine is widely revered and has "a very low acceptance rate, typically less than 10%." I 
farther explains that she received additional recognition for this research by having her poster accepted 
for presentation at the 20161 I Cancer Research annual meeting, and by having 
her grant proposal outlining the research recommended for fonding by the U.S. Department of 
Defense. He opines that "few scientists in the field achieve a similar milestone at this stage of their 
5 The Petitioner also co-authored an a11icle in this field ofresearch titled·~--------------~ ~-----~ which was published in Cancer Research in 2016. The record reflects that this article had not been 
cited by other researchers as of the date of filing. 
7 
careers."I I also states that the Beneficiary has achieved "milestones that are aspirational to 
cancer researchers at her career stage." However, neither! lnorl ~xplains how the 
Petitioner's receipt of postdoctoral grant fonding or presentation of a poster at thd I meeting 
demonstrates that her research in this area has resulted in her being among the small percentage of 
scientists at the very top of the field as a whole. Overall, the evidence related to the Beneficiary's 
publications and scholarly contributions to her field demonstrates that she is an accomplished scientist 
who garnered a level of recognition for herl lcancer and I lrelated research that is 
notable for a researcher at the early stages of her career. However, the evidence does not show that 
she is recognized as being among the small percentage of scientists in her field who have achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim as evidenced through extensive documentation. 
The Petitioner has also not demonstrated how the Beneficiary's leading or critical role in its 
organization has resulted in her sustained national or international acclaim. 6 The Petitioner provides 
letters from several of the Beneficiary's current and former work colleagues who provide details of 
her role in helping to secure critical partnership and collaboration projects with other pharmaceutical 
companies. 7 Further, it asserts that"[ e ]xecuting four ( 4) business deals in one year is no easy feat and 
itself underscores [the Beneficiary's] extraordinary abilities." 
The record reflects that the referenced collaboration and partnership deals are both highly valuable to 
the Petitioner from a financial standpoint and beneficial to ongoing research into I O O I 
treatments based on the company's! ~ssets. The Beneficiary's colleagues provide 
sufficient detail to establish her critical role with the company, and offer high praise for her talents. 
For example,! I the Petitioner's former Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel, 
asserts that she considers the Beneficiary to be "among a small, top percentile of individuals with the 
technical background and analytical skills required to drive such a function within a biotechnology 
company." Likewise,! I the Petitioner's Vice President of Business Development and 
Alliance Mana:ement, states that the Beneficiary is "an extraordinary individual in the field of 
I 00 ~ and "in the top 1 % of individuals that I have worked with in a similar capacity 
across my career and the top 1 % of performers at [the Petitioner]. I I 
the City of Hope Medical Center, indicates that he worked with the Beneficiary to write a three]arty 
research collaboration for the purpose of advancing a vaccine candidate for a type oti • , He 
states that the Beneficiary's "unique skill set rises to a much greater level than peers at her same level" 
and "is far beyond the reach of most professionals at her stage of their professional careers." 
While the testimonial evidence demonstrates the nature of the Beneficiary's critical role within the 
company, indicates her involvement with some high-profile deals and collaboration projects, and 
offers strong praise for her talents from both colleagues and partners, the record does not show how 
her role with the petitioning company or her achievements in that role have resulted in national or 
6 The Director detennined that the Beneficiary met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based only on her leading 
or critical role with the Petitioner, and the record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based solely on that 
role. The Petitioner later claimed that the Beneficiary also held a critical role as a postdoctoral associate for I I 
Medicine. We note that the Beneficiary's achievements and recognitions received during her tenure there, including her 
Nature Medicine publication, her U.S. Department of Defense grant, and her invitation to present a poster at the 2016 
I !meeting, are all addressed elsewhere in this decision and will not be repeated in our analysis related to this criterion. 
7 While we discuss a representative sample here, we have reviewed and considered all of the letters that relate to the 
Beneficiary's role with the petitioning company. 
8 
international acclaim or her recognition as being one of the small percentage at the top of her field by 
persons other than co-workers and partners with whom she has worked. The Petitioner provided 
copies of e-mails that the Beneficiary has received which demonstrate that recruiters working for other 
companies have tried to recruit her based on the information she provided on her Linkedln profile; 
however, this evidence was submitted to establish that there is a high demand for professionals with 
her skillset, not to establish that she is being recruited based on her recognition as one of the scientists 
or industry professionals at the very top of the oncology field. 
The Petitioner further argues on appeal that the Director overlooked evidence related to the 
Beneficiary's awards and memberships in his final merits determination, and that such evidence 
further supports a finding that the Beneficiary meets the requirements for this classification. 
The Director acknowledged that the Beneficijry was jwarded a Department of Defense research grant 
providing over $211,000 in funding for a cancer research project, but determined that 
"research grants are not awards for excellence; rather they simply fund research or work" and are "not 
intended to honor or recognize past excellence." On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the 
Beneficiary's research grant "shows sustained and recognition in the scientific community placing her 
among the top percentage of individuals in her field." The record reflects that, during her tenure as a 
postdoctoral associate at I I Medicine, the Petitioner abplied for and was awarded a 
Department of Defense I I Cancer Research Program "Early Investigator Research 
A ward -Postdoctoral." She was one of 16 recipients of this grant in 2016 out of 77 applicants whose 
applications met the program requirements, all of whom were required to be actively involved in 
postdoctoral training for a period of less than three years. 
The evidence indicates that factors considered in awarding the grant included the Beneficiary's 
academic record, research and publication history, and career goals, as well as factors unrelated to her 
individual achievements, such as her mentor's qualifications as a researcher and his past record of 
training young scientists, whether the application presented a training and development plan for the 
Beneficiary, whether she would have the facilities and equipment necessary to carry out the research, 
and whether the research program had the potential to address an unmet need in prostate cancer 
research. Therefore, while the grant reviewers took into account the Beneficiary's past achievements 
as a student and young investigator, and the grant was received through a competitive process, the 
evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary's receipt of this postdoctoral 
funding, even from a national organization such as the U.S. Department of Defense, establishes or is 
reflective of her national or international acclaim or her placement among scientists at the very top of 
the field. The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence of the acclaim connected to this award, 
such as press coverage beyond documenting that a list of award winners was published on the granting 
organization's own website. The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991). 
On appeal, the Petitioner also highlights the Beneficiary's associate membership in the American 
Association of Cancer Researchers (AACR), as a factor that should contribute to a finding that she 
meets the high standard for this classification. A letter from the AACR indicates that it is a 
9 
professional assocrnt10n with 40,000 member scientists worldwide and six membership levels. 
Associate membership is available to graduate students, medical students and residents, and 
postdoctoral fellows, who must be nominated by a current active, emeritus or honorary member in 
good standing. The Petitioner emphasizes that "membership is only granted if the candidate has or 
will make long-term contributions to cancer research and adheres to accepted ethical scientific 
methods," and asserts that the Beneficiary's "membership highlights her extraordinary ability in the 
field of oncology, farther qualifying her for this criterion as an extraordinary ability individual in the 
sciences." The Petitioner provided a letter froml I the AACR member who nominated her, 
and while he clearly holds her scientific work in high regard, the record does not support a finding that 
being accepted as associate member in the AACR points to a scientist's national or international 
acclaim, nor does it demonstrate how it is indicative of one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the top of the field. 
In addition, on appeal, counsel points to the Beneficiary's "extraordinarily high remuneration" as 
supportive of "a showing of sustained acclaim and recognition in her scientific community placing her 
among the top percentage of individuals in her field." Counsel acknowledges, however, that the 
Petitioner did not previously claim eligibility based on the Beneficiary's salary under the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), and the appeal does not include independent, objective evidence 
establishing that the Beneficiary's salary or remuneration package is high in comparison with others 
employed in similar positions in her geographic area. Further, while a high salary may demonstrate 
some degree ofrecognition of her achievements in the field, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
showing the Beneficiary's earnings are at a level reflecting that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the top of the field. 
Finally, as noted, the Petitioner has submitted a number of recommendation letters that summarize the 
Beneficiary's professional accomplishments as both a researcher and professional in the biotechnology 
researcher. Here, the letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In fact, as noted, many of the highly accomplished experts 
who provided their support of the Beneficiary's petition indicate that they consider her to be among 
the top when compared to scientists with a similar amount of research or industry experience, rather 
than comparing her to those who enjoy sustained national or international acclaim and recognition for 
being at the top of the field. For example,! I stated that he has been "impressed with [the 
Beneficiary's scientific knowledge in oncology and analytical skills, and can place her productivity 
and career progress as highly exceptional beyond what I have seen in her peer group." 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
10 
among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
C. Continued Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Director also denied the petition based on a finding that the Petitioner did not establish that the 
Beneficiary would be working in the United States in her area of claimed extraordinary ability, as 
required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. The Director's determination was based on a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has offered the Beneficiary a managerial role "that is not in the 
beneficiary's field of medical research" and because the Beneficiary would not be working "as a 
researcher." 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Beneficiary's field and area of expertise is oncology 
and that both her prior work as a researcher and her role with the Petitioner rely on her expertise in 
this field. The Petitioner has submitted several detailed letters from its own senior staff explaining 
how the Beneficiary's current role relies on her scientific knowledge in the field of oncology research, 
as well as letters from independent recruiters in the biotechnology field who explain that persons in 
pharmaceutical industry roles comparable to the Beneficiary's typical possess a background similar to 
her own. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's adverse finding with respect to this issue. 
D. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785 (E.D. La.), affd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 
122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5566576 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner appealed the matter to us, and 
we dismissed the appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen the matter with us, which we 
denied. 
On second motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets the additional 
criterion claimed in his initial motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor.1 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
In her decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the requisite three criteria, 
regarding awards or prizes under and judging, but did not meet a third claimed criterion related to 
published material. On appeal, we upheld the Director's decision. 2 The Petitioner then filed a motion 
to reopen with us, providing new evidence and again claiming to meet the criterion for published 
material. We subsequently dismissed this motion, determining that the evidence did not demonstrate 
his eligibility for the additional criterion. 3 
The Petitioner now submits a second motion to reopen, provides new evidence, and asserts that these 
materials demonstrate that he meets the published material criterion. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the new evidence submitted in 
support of the instant motion to reopen does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied an additional 
criterion, as claimed. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
We previously determined on motion that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence sufficient to 
establish that he met the published material criterion. On second motion, the Petitioner provides five 
articles, some of which were previously submitted, as well as documentation re ardin the sources in 
which these articles were published. Three of these articles, .__---~----------
I t
1' publi(hed at spr'F........,.""""'"".w...-t..----------li I l"4 published at www com, and 
1 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 See Matter of M-M-M-. ID# 1521185 (AAO July 16, 2018). 
3 See Matter of M-M-M-. ID# 2354183 (AAO Mar. 7, 2019). 
4 The Petitioner submitted this document with his first motion and asserted that it was published at www.c=].com. In 
2 
~----.--------r------" published at ireport.cnn.com, are about the Petitioner and related to 
his work. However, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that 
sprudge.com, I ~com, or ireport.cnn.com are professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, as required. 
Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the publication is, as well as the 
title, date and author of the material. 5 With respect to sprudge.com, the Petitioner provides several 
documents ranking the web site among other coffee blogs and RSS feeds. The first, a document titled 
"Top 100 Coffee Blogs, News Websites & Newsletters to Follow in 2019" posted on the Feedspot 
website (https://blog.feedspot.com/coffee_blogs), ranks sprudge.com first of 100 blogs and indicates 
that it has tens of thousands of followers on social media. However, while the document states that 
the list is based upon "search and social metrics," we note that the ranking does not correspond to the 
indicated number of social media followers for the blogs and does not clarify how sprudge.com 
received the top ranking on this list. In addition, the document notes that it is compiled "from 
thousands of top Coffee [sic] blogs in our index," thereby excluding any blogs not in the index. 
Further, the Petitioner does not demonstrate the significance of this ranking or show how it reflects a 
status of major media in comparison to other media. 
A second article also from Feedspot, "Top Coffee RSS Feeds," ranks sprudge.com as the top RSS feed 
and describes it as "a site devoted to coffee news and culture" and "a great resource if you want to 
know what's happening in the world of coffee, and who is writing about it," but fails to indicate how 
this ranking was determined. Again, the Petitioner does not establish the significance of such a rank, 
or otherwise provide an objective comparison to show how receipt of such a rank is reflective of a 
status of major medium. Two additional articles, "8 Unique Coffee Sites for Coffee News," and "9 
Blogs for Coffee Lovers," also include sprudge.com. However, these articles do not provide 
comparative statistics for the included coffee sites or blogs, or otherwise demonstrate how being 
identified as a unique coffee site or one recommended to coffee lovers, is reflective of major media. 
As it relates to 0.com, the Petitioner provides two articles titled "Media inl f, an§ 
TV" from wikipedia.org, 6 and one frlm yelp tom titled "The Best 10 Television Stations i " 
The Wikipedia articlp.s....b.illb,identify as a television channel and affilip.te .... o.(NBC in , 
and the article titled L___j-TV" indicates that the channel's website is wwwL _ _J.com. However, 
the documents do not reflect thatO.com's online circulation is high relative to that of other 
websites, or otherwise demonstrate thatO.com is a major medium. The Wikipedia articles simply 
our decision, we determined that as it lacked "identifying characteristics from ·I I' or an Internet 
address," the evidence did not support this assertion. The document presented on second motion includes a link to this 
site, and so we will consider it here. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
6 We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee 
the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (January 21, 2020) 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
3 
describe the news media in I I rd pro Ji de a description of I I TV. The web printout from 
yelp.com ranks television stations in Washington, rather than websites. The Petitioner does 
not show how a television station's rank based upon reviews on yelp.com demonstrates that its 
affiliated web site is a major medium. 7 
Regarding the article about the Petitioner published at ireport.cnn.com, he also has not established that 
this website qualifies as a major medium. While we acknowledge that CNN and its website are major 
media, the printout in the record indicates that this article was published on CNN iReport's website 
rather than by CNN. Specifically the article's banner reads "CNN iReport," and the article itself 
contains a statement that it was "[n]ot verified by CNN." The Petitioner does not clarify the 
relationship between CNN iReport and CNN, nor does he demonstrate that an article published there 
has the same visibility or readership as an article published on CNN' s website. Further, the Petitioner 
does not provide on-line circulation statistics for CNN iReport or for comparative media to show that 
ireport.cnn.com's circulation is high relative to others, and thus is a major medium. 
The remaining articles are not about the Petitioner, as required. One article, I ~" published at https://thecurbkaim._u_k_i_.c_o_m_,_d_i-sc_u_s_se_s_t_h_.e 
increasing numbers of visa denials at world coffee competitions and identifies several baristas who 
have had visas denied, of which the Petitioner is one. However, its primary focus is visa denials in 
eneral, with a discussion focusin on the Mexican barista cham ion's 2019 visa denial. The second, 
.__ ___________________________ ___," published online at 
baristamagazine.com, is an interview with the 2018 Iran Barista Champion, and does not mention the 
Petitioner. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Even were these articles about the Petitioner, he does not provide sufficient evidence on motion to 
demonstrate that they appear in major media or professional or major trade publications. As it relates 
thecurbkaimuki.com, the record lacks evidence, such as on-line publication statistics or other relevant 
material for these sites, showing that the circulation for this web page is high relative to other online 
publications, or showing their intended audiences. Regarding baristamagazine.com, the Petitioner 
provides, among other evidence, a March 2019 article titled "Top 5 Coffee Magazines, Publications 
& Ezines To Follow In 2019," from blog.feedspot.com ranking it in first place and stating that the 
website has 29,045 Facebook fans and 42,813 Twitter followers. Again, the Petitioner does not 
demonstrate the significance of these statistics or show how they reflect a status of major media. He 
also includes a 2019 media kit for Barista Magazine indicating, "more than 100,000 people online" 
read the magazine, but does not provide independent evidence corroborating this assertion, or submit 
evidence, such as on-line circulation statistics or other relevant materials, showing these statistics are 
high relative to those of other websites. Furthermore, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine 
as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media). We note that the aforementioned 
7 We note that the Petitioner indicates in the brief included with its first motion that this article was "accompanied by an 
interest piece which aired onc=]7:00 news." However, the record lacks evidence rupp01Tng this assertion, such as a 
link to a video or transcripts. Moreover, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how the television station's rank on 
yelp.com reflects a status of major medium. 
4 
article "8 Unique Coffee Sites for Coffee News" also mentions baristamagazine.com, but again the 
Petitioner does not demonstrate how being mentioned as one of eight unique coffee websites 
establishes that the web site is a major medium. 
For the foregoing reasons, the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner does not establish his 
eligibility for the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The new evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion is not sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
fulfilled at least three of the initial evidentiary requirements. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The motion will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The motion is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10319143 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professor of endodontics , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director reopened the 
proceeding , and concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, but did 
not establish that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked atl I University inl I Turkey, since 1989, becoming a foll 
professor in 1998. The Petitioner has served on various committees, atl I University and 
elsewhere. She intends to continue working as an educator and researcher in the United States. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met at least three criteria. Therefore, rather than discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary 
criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below, and evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown 
her eligibility. 
The Petitioner states that she "has been on international scientific committees, respected 
national/international journals, and prestigious committees where she judged the work of her 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
colleagues and made determinations regarding their respective career advancement." The record does 
not establish the significance of these committee positions. The Petitioner asserts, for instance, that 
she "has served on the I I Committee," but the record 
indicates that this committee was convened for one specific conference in Turkey in 2007. Conference 
documentation names the members of six different committees, all of them apparently Turkish. In 
contrast, the named members oftht':I )'s Executive Team represent a range of nationalities. The 
record, therefore, indicates the Petitioner's committee position was a local, ad hoc responsibility. The 
Petitioner does not establish how these committee members were selected, and therefore she has not 
shown that her selection reflects acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that she received "a national honor" in the form of an assignment "as a 
permanent member of the committee which administered the Associate Professor Exams by the 
Council of Higher Education of the Republic of Turkey." The record does not explain the selection 
process or show that the field considers the assignment "a national honor." Furthermore, despite the 
use of the term "Permanent Member" in the English translations, a series of letters from the Council 
over several years describe the committees as 'juries" for specific, named candidates for associate 
professorships. The letters show different committee/jury members for different candidates, indicating 
that there is no permanent, standing committee that continues to exist from one candidate to the next. 
The Petitioner demonstrated her membership on the editorial boards of the Italian Journal of 
Endodontics and the Turkish Clinics Journal of Endodontics, and on a '1 I committee" for the 
Turkish journal. The record does not establish the duties of these positions, or how she was chosen 
for them. The record shows that the Italian journal's Editorial Board has 65 members, and a 2005 
letter from the Turkish Dental Association describes the Turkish journal's I !committee as 
"large." The Petitioner has not shown that these positions are hallmarks of qualifying national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has written about 50 published scholarly articles since 1990. A printout from the 
Google Scholar search engine shows substantial citations for some of those articles, and the Director 
took that evidence into consideration. At the same time, when considering the question of sustained 
acclaim, we cannot ignore that the most recent article with a significant number of citations appeared 
in 2009. The submitted citation data does not establish that the Petitioner continues to produce 
influential research. 
The I l(shapes) of toothl I structures are classified under a system developed by I lin 1984, and bearing his name. The Petitioner contends that one of her most 
significant contributions is being the first endodontist to identify newl I not previously 
identified b~ I The Director took account of heavy citation of some early articles by the 
Petitioner describing these neJ 1 0 11 ess than ten years after the introduction of the I I 
classifications. But the Petitioner has not shown that these modifications to what was still a new 
classification system have contributed to sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to letters in the record. 
Most of these letters are from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner in some capacity, and 
who describe their collaborations with her. Such letters can provide valuable first-hand information 
3 
about the Petitioner's work in detail, but are not evidence of wider recognition. Even then, most of 
the letters describe the Petitioner's work only in vague and general terms. Three of the letters contain 
this exact sentence: "[The Petitioner's] major research projects focus on.__ _______ __. and I I of materials used in the field of endodontic treatments, which is reflected in her 
national and international publications." These similarities strongly suggest common authorship, or 
at least reliance on some kind of template. See Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 
519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when an asylum 
applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). One letter 
containing the shared passage is from a bank president who claims no credentials or expertise in 
dentistry, and who does not explain how he is in a position to evaluate the significance of the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner has established a degree of success and influence in her field, but the record does not 
establish that her reputation and recognition have risen to the required level of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13065567 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned master's de rees in architecture at the University! bnd the University of 
-----.---------~ After workin in the United States for I !Architecture 
from 2009 to 2010, and at rom 2010 to 2013, the Petitioner returned to China 
~a_s_a_c-o-~founder and chief architect a inl I Projects discussed in the record include 
I I(~ [arts exhibition spacdh inl l China: I I 
( a mixed-use development incorporating a shopping mall, apartments, and an office building); and 
I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (i) and (iii), and 
we will not disturb that conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the remaining 
claimed criterion. As explained below, after reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude 
that it does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
2 
I example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner has won awards and earned media coverage 
for her work. The Petitioner asserts that the awards and coverage are, themselves, evidence of the 
significance of her contributions. The regulatory framework calls for converging lines of evidence, 
consistent with the "extensive documentation" required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. For this 
reason, while a given piece of evidence may be relevant to multiple criteria, satisfaction of any one 
criterion does not invariably demonstrate satisfaction of others. 
The Petitioner submits letters from several individuals in the field of architecture, most of whom have 
employed, supervised, or trained the Petitioner. Some of these individuals offer general praise for the 
Petitioner's abilities, and their opinions about particular projects, but they do not specify how her 
contributions have had major siggificance in the field. For example, a professor who taught the Petitioner 
during her graduate studies at I I states that the Petitioner "proved her outstanding ability in 
transforming radical concepts into solid design schemes," and calls I I "a true spectacle," 
describing the structure without explaining its larger significance in the field of architectural design. 
Likewise, a design director who previously worked with the Petitioner ;:ift I states that the Petitioner's 
"design knowledge and ability was [sic] a critical part of the success of multiple important projects ... 
[that] are both highly complex and exceptionally innovative in their design." He identifies the projects 
and states that the Petitioner "more than was able to rise to the task," but does not explain the significance 
of the Petitioner's work on those projects. In a follow-up letter, he cites one claimed example of the 
Petitioner's influence, stating that "thd I Opera House ... , announced in 2019, ... has 
almost the same approach as thd I project, and is also a side proof ofl Is innovative 
impact." He cites no source for the information, and the Petitioner identifies no corroborating 
documentation in the record. Therefore, this assertion carries negligible weight as a purported example 
of the Petitioner's influence on the field. 
The Petitioner also submits letters from editors of various tublications. For example, the founder and 
editor in chief of ArchDaily calls the I center a "great example of [ the Petitioner's] 
exceptional work." He asserts that "publication[] of her representative works ... can certainly bring 
invaluable inspiration to other designers," but this attests to potential impact and influence without 
showing that the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field of architectural design. 
The assistant deoutv editor of Domus discusses some of the Petitioner's desim1s and states: I 
r This general statement does not suffice to explain how the Petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "There are elements of her work which serve as building blocks to 
the future success of design, and while this premise may seem 'insignificant,' on the contrary, 
foundational work is the start of many groundbreaking contributions." The burden, however, is on the 
Petitioner to show that her work is recognized as "foundational," and is being used "as building blocks to 
the future success of design." Speculation that future architects and designers could rely on her work has 
no weight in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner asserts that the record shows that she "has been instrumental in the creation of dozens of 
architectural designs ... which have been widely implemented and resulted in economic benefits." The 
burden is on the Petitioner to document those claimed benefits, and to show that they result from her 
design work, rather than the underlying project. 
For example, a shopping mall will have a commercial impact owing to the retail sales that occur there as 
a matter of course; the Petitioner cannot simply claim credit for that impact because she was involved in 
the architectural design of the facility where those sales take place. A particularly innovative design may 
increase traffic to that shopping mall, but it is up to the Petitioner to show how this is the case. 
The Petitioner does not meet this burden on appeal. For instance, she provides information about "an 
urban complex that integrates [a] large shopping mall, office building, apartment and residence." The 
Petitioner then provides information about the complex, and claims that it "has become an industry 
benchmark in China's shopping malls," but does not explain how this is due to the Petitioner's 
architectural design work rather than other attributes of the complex, such as the intrinsic demand for 
shopping, office, and residential facilities. The Petitioner also does not show that it was she who 
conceived the idea of consolidating these different facilities into a single complex, or that her work has 
influenced others in her field. 
The Petitioner asserts that the various projects are "examples [ of] utilization/application of her work," but 
the construction of buildings from plans she was hired to prepare does not show influence beyond that 
project. Not every completed structure is inherently an original contribution of major significance in the 
field. The Petitioner does not claim that the designs she has created for the various projects have had a 
significant effect on the field of architectural design. Rather, she asserts that her "architectural designs 
have resulted in buildings, resorts, malls, bridges, etc., which are currently being utilized by millions of 
consumers," but she offers no explanation as to why the success of a given commercial project establishes 
major significance in the.field of architectural design. 
The Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that her original contributions are of major significance in the 
field of architectural design. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has demonstrated her involvement in some high-profile architectural projects, but she has not shown 
that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Submitted letters refer to the Petitioner's work as influential but do not 
document that influence. Much of the media coverage documented in the record appears to be 
promotional in nature. The Petitioner has established that she is a creative and successful architectural 
designer, but has not demonstrated a level of acclaim that would place her at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11895069 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he seeks to enter the United States to continue working in his area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The petition must also be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has performed in over 50 plays at thq l's Art Theatre, including the lead in I I described as a classic modem play. The Petitioner also performed in the title role in a television 
series called I I After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met more than three of these criteria, but detailed 
discussion of the additional criteria would not affect the outcome of the decision and therefore we 
reserve those issues. 1 
Because the Petitioner met at least three of the initial criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. The Director concluded that that the Petitioner has not established the sustained 
national or international acclaim required for the classification. On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
address the Director's specific conclusions. Instead, the Petitioner contends that Kazarian does not 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 
require, or even permit, a final merits determination. The Petitioner contends that, by satisfying at 
least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, he has established eligibility. 
The Petitioner's interpretation of Kazarian is incorrect. That decision does not indicate that satisfaction 
of three or more criteria should inevitably result in the approval of the petition. Instead, the Court clearly 
described a two-step process,.first evaluating the evidence within the initial criteria, and then determining 
whether that evidence establishes the required acclaim: 
If a petitioner has submitted the requisite evidence [under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)], USCIS 
[U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services] determines whether the evidence 
demonstrates both a "level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the[ir] field of endeavor," 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2), and "that the alien has sustained national or international acclaim and that his 
or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise." 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
Kazarian at 1119-20. The criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not, by themselves, establish acclaim. 
Instead, they address an "antecedent procedural question" that precedes the "final merits determination." 
Id. at 1121. USCIS has adopted this approach in a policy memorandum.2 
Notwithstanding the deficiencies in the Petitioner's argument, there are also issues in the Director's 
decision which must be addressed. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's prizes and media 
coverage, but stated that: "Performance awards and media attention are common in the entertainment 
industry, especially among actors." The Director concluded that the Petitioner could not establish 
sustained acclaim without forth er documentation, "such as evidence that [the] petitioner has [ received] 
an unusually large number of recognized awards or an unusually large amount of attention in major 
media." 
The Director's analysis did not give sufficient attention to the nature of the evidence in the record. 
For example, the published articles in the record describe the Petitioner as an established and highly 
successful actor. One article indicates that the Petitioner played an iconic stage role for over 20 years. 
Another states that his role as a detective in a television series "made him a well-known big star." The 
articles reflect knowledge of the Petitioner's past work, and presuppose the readers' familiarity with that 
work, indicating long-standing attention to his career beyond the superficial biographical details that can 
accompany an introduction to a previously obscure performer. It is also significant that the articles span 
more than a decade, indicating sustained media interest rather than a single burst of attention that 
immediately preceded the filing of the petition (which would raise questions about the circumstances of 
their publication). 
2 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The submitted evidence presents a facially plausible claim that the Petitioner has earned sustained 
national acclaim in China. The Director does not appear to have taken all of the relevant information 
into account, concentrating on the quantity, rather than the content, of the Petitioner's awards and 
media articles. Further analysis and consideration of the record is necessary. 
B. Continued Work in the United States 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to show how he will 
continue to work in his field, as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5) requires the Petitioner to submit clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the beneficiary 
detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States. 
The Petitioner submits a two-page "Employment Contract" between himself andl ., ,I 
inl I California. The Director raised two concerns about this contract. First, the record does 
not provide any further information aboutl I Second, the contract is in English, which 
the Petitioner does not speak. The Director's concerns are valid, but phrased so vaguely that the Petitioner 
did not have a meaningful opportunity to address these issues in response to a request for evidence or on 
appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i) (requiring the Director to explain in writing the specific reasons for 
denial). 
In a translated statement submitted on appeal, the Petitioner states that he is unaware of any English 
proficiency requirement for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. The issue, however, is not 
the Petitioner's English proficiency as such. Rather, the issue is that we cannot determine the extent to 
which the Petitioner fully comprehends an employment contract in a foreign language. 
With respect to the co~tracr Mill I the Director's concerns bear some elaboration. The 
contract indicates that I provides "entertainment performances for TV programs and 
TV broadcasting," but the record does not show that the company has actually produced any television 
programming. The street address for the company belongs to a single-family house. The contract does 
not list any named projects, or any specific roles that the Petitioner would play. 
Of particular concern, the contract appears to exist for the sole purpose of supporting the petition. A 
clause in the document reads: "Studio agrees that if [the Petitioner] obtains a visa other than the 
Extraordinary Alien visa or an immigration bias, this agreement shall not be enforceable against him." 
Furthermore, the contract, executed in June 2019, "shall cease to exist automatically on January 1, 2020." 
These provisions raise significant questions as to whether the document is a bona fide contract, reflecting 
a true mutual intention for the Petitioner to work for the studio. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification with no specific job offer 
requirement, and the regulations do not require submission of an employment contract. Nevertheless, the 
documentation submitted in support of the petition must reflect true facts. See section 204(b) of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § l 154(b). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires clear evidence that a given 
petitioner is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. Because the 
4 
Petitioner chose to submit an employment contract, it is proper to examine the terms set forth in that 
contract. The same regulation also indicates that a petitioner's statement must include "detail[ ed] plans"; 
a generalized assertion of intent cannot suffice in this regard. 
The Director's concerns about the contract between the Petitioner and~-----~ are valid, but 
The Petitioner has not had the opportunity to address specific, relevant issues regarding that document. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The final merits determination in the original decision was deficient in that it focused on the quantity 
of the Petitioner's awards and amount of press coverage. Also, the Director did not provide the 
Petitioner with an adequate opportunity to elaborate upon his plans for continued work in the United 
States. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should request any additional evidence deemed warranted 
and allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence within a reasonable period of time. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12093133 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error as the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner had satisfied the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification . The Director 
further determined that the Petitioner had provided conflicting information to USCIS that was not 
resolved by her response to the notice of intent to revoke (NOIR). We affirmed the revocation of the 
previously approved petition and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on a 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 l&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the combined motions. 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form l-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
A. The Classification Sought 
Section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
B. Revocation of an Approved Petition 
Section 205 of the Act states: "The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he deems 
to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204. 
Such revocation shall be effective as of the date of approval of any such petition." 
Regarding the revocation of an immigrant petition under section 205 of the Act, the Board of Immigration 
Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime ... , this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa petition 
is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time 
the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa 
petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to 
revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, 
including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice 
of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (quoting Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. at 452). 
2 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal determining that although she established that she meets three of 
the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the totality of the evidence did not 
demonstrate her sustained national or international acclaim and that she is among the small percentage 
at the very top of her field of endeavor. In evaluating the evidence in the final merits determination, 
we weighed evidence related to the Petitioner's industry award, her leading position with the board of 
directors of I land evidence of other high-ranking corporate positions she held, the 
compensation she received for these positions, her published articles in journals related to business 
management, and her position on a journal's editorial board. We determined that the record 
established that she enjoyed a successful career in business in China·~ I province. However, we 
concluded that she did not establish by a preponderance of the evidence that she achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim in her field as required by section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act, and was 
therefore not eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In addition, we acknowledged that the Director had also revoked the approval of the petition, in part, 
based on a conclusion that the Petitioner had provided conflicting information to USCIS and the U.S. 
Department of State regarding her employment experience and salary which had not been fully 
resolved by her response to the NOIR. Because our determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
her eligibility for the requested classification was dispositive of the appeal, we reserved this separate 
issue and did not discuss it in detail. We did, however, acknowledge a claim by Petitioner's new 
counsel that any apparent discrepancies in the record were attributable to "negligence and inadequate 
representation by previous counsel" and "misrepresentation and fraud by an individual" who "posed 
as a US attorney." We observed that the allegations of ineffective assistance made on appeal were 
limited to new counsel's unsubstantiated claims about the conduct of prior counsel and his unlicensed 
associate. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider is based on two allegations that USCIS misapplied the law to 
the facts of this case. First, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the record 
established that she met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
and thus erred in revoking the approval of the petition. Specifically, the Petitioner contends that, since 
the Director determined in both the NOIR and the notice of revocation that the Petitioner met only two 
of these initial criteria, a "final merit[s] determination was not in the scope of the NOIR" and under 
Matter of Arias, 19 l&N Dec. 568 {BIA 1988), "the revocation could not have been made under a final 
merit[s] determination." The Petitioner requests that the Director "reconsider the revocation." 
The basis for the Director's revocation of the approved petition, and our decision to affirm that 
revocation, was that the Petitioner did not meet the statutory and regulatory eligibility requirements 
3 
for this classification at section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). As 
discussed above, the final merits determination is the second stage of the multi-part analysis set forth 
in Kazarian and involves a review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support the petition; it 
does not have separate evidentiary requirements. 
Here, the NOIR listed all ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), explained the multi-part 
analysis and final merits determination that must be conducted if a petitioner meets at least three 
criteria, and advised that, under Kazarian, meeting the initial evidence requirement does not, in and 
of itself, establish that the individual has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field. The NOIR provided notice of this multi­
part analysis and did not erroneously advise the Petitioner that she would overcome the intended 
revocation simply by meeting one additional evidentiary criterion. 
Further, although we concluded upon de nova review of the record, including additional evidence and 
clarifications submitted on appeal, that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we did not conclude that the Director's determination was in error based on the evidence before him 
at the time of the revocation decision. 
Based on the foregoing, our decision to affirm the revocation was not grounded upon factors that were 
outside the scope of the NOIR or the notice of revocation. The Petitioner's implied request that we 
remand the matter to the Director for further consideration will not be granted. 
The second argument that the Petitioner makes in support of her motion to reconsider is that the "AAO 
erred in the application of the final merits determination." The Petitioner specifically highlights our 
statement that "the Petitioner's apparent unemployment since 2015 diminishes her claim that she has 
sustained whatever acclaim she may have previously earned in business." However, the Petitioner has 
not explained how we misapplied the law or policy in considering the Petitioner's recent activities in 
the field in our evaluation of whether she has sustained acclaim at a level that places her among those 
at the very top of the field.1 The quoted language from our decision immediately followed a detailed 
discussion explaining why the totality of the evidence related to her industry award, corporate 
positions and compensation, published journal articles and other evidence from 2015 and years prior 
did not demonstrate that she had achieved national or international acclaim; the lack of recent evidence 
of her activities was not the deciding factor in our final merits determination. 
Rather than presenting a legal argument detailing how we misapplied law or policy in analyzing the 
final merits of her case, the Petitioner asks that we review a new affidavit in which she explains her 
recent activities in the United States and personal reasons for not pursuing full-time employment since 
2015. She also explains her financial situation, noting that she has considerable resources based on 
her position as "a highly successful businesswoman in the top of her field" who "was compensated 
accordingly." However, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was incorrect based 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that "[i]f an alien was recognized for a 
particular achievement, [USCIS] should determine whether the alien continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim 
in the field of expertise .... An alien may have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter." 
4 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We 
do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss her appeal was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that it was incorrect based on the evidence before us on appeal. 
Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Here, the Petitioner 
states that she is seeking to reopen the matter based on the ineffective assistance she received from her 
former counsel,! land his associate,! lwho is not a licensed attorney. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the Petitioner acknowledges that she retained the services of an 
individual! I who is not an attorney or accredited representative, albeit she states that she did 
so unknowingly. The Petitioner's ineffective assistance claim is primarily focused on actions taken 
by this individual. However, there is no remedy available for a petitioner who assumes the risk of 
authorizing an unlicensed attorney or unaccredited representative to undertake representations on its 
behalf. See 8 C.F.R. § 292.1; see also Hernandez v. Mukasey, 524 F.3d 1014 (9th Cir. 2008) 
("nonattorney immigration consultants simply lack the expertise and legal and professional duties to 
their clients that are the necessary preconditions for ineffective assistance of counsel claims"). 
However, as the record shows that the Petitioner was represented by an attorney who filed a Form G-
28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney, with the Form 1-140, we will consider her ineffective 
assistance claim. In a newly submitted affidavit, the Petitioner states that she met the named attorney, 
I Ion one occasion in September 2015 and had no further communication with him since 
that time.2 She nevertheless maintains that former counsel's representation was clearly deficient and 
prejudiced her case, emphasizing that "because of the unorganized, falsified and confusing evidence 
submitted by prior counsel," her credibility was in question in the notice of intent to revoke, the notice 
of revocation, and the AAO's decision. 
As we already discussed, we affirmed the Director's revocation of the approval and dismissed the 
appeal based solely on the merits of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability claim and a determination 
that the Petitioner did not establish that she has sustained national and international acclaim and that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. We reserved and did not discuss the 
issue of whether the record contained derogatory information or unresolved inconsistencies that would 
independently warrant revocation of the petition's approval. 
The specific discrepancies discussed in the "Derogatory information" section of the Director's 
decision focused on the Petitioner's employment history, specifically her exact job titles, dates and 
locations of employment with~-----~ and the sources of her income as reflected in her 
2 We note that~-----------~· is named along with ~------___,...... on the 
representation agreement the Petitioner signed in September 2015. The provided copy of the agreement does not include 
his sig?ati,re and the Petitioner does not claim that she paidl I or his firm; she states that she directly paid0 Dofl I 
5 
Chinese tax documentation. The Petitioner states in her affidavit that the NOIR response included an 
"inaccurate description of [her] work and income" as a result of ineffective assistance that prejudiced 
her case. However, a review of our decision reflects that these factors did not prejudice her case at 
the appeal stage. If we doubted the credibility of the evidence relating to her prior employment and 
salary, we would not have determined that she served in a leading role withl lor that 
she received compensation commensurate with her "important positions at L..J and other 
companies." 
We did express a concern with current counsel's contention that certain evidence was prepared by the 
Petitioner's previous representative without her full participation and awareness, and that she may 
have signed documents she did not fully understand based on her limited English language 
comprehension. For example, we noted that she signed the Form 1-140 and attested to the accuracy 
of the information provided, although the petition indicated her residential address was in Delaware 
when in fact she resided in California. This was not a substantive issue that influenced our evaluation 
of her eligibility for this classification, as we concluded that she provided sufficient credible, probative 
evidence to establish that she met at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that the outcome of her appeal was impacted by 
the claimed ineffective assistance of former counsel. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not stated the new facts to be provided in a reopened proceeding that would 
overcome our determination that she did not establish her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability pursuant to section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). The only new 
facts provided on motion that directly address the basis for dismissal of the appeal, as noted above, 
relate to her activities subsequent to her arrival to the United States in 2015. As noted, the Petitioner 
provides new information explaining why she has not been employed full-time since leaving her last 
position abroad. However, the information provided in her affidavit does not overcome our 
determination that she did not establish that she achieved sustained national or international acclaim 
in the years prior to 2015 or provide sufficient grounds for reopening the appeal. Accordingly, the 
motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
of our previous decision or otherwise established eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13212638 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oncologist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his medical degrees a~ I University id._ ___ ___.l China, where he 
has since held positions of increasing authority in the Department of Oncology, including chief 
physician, director, and professor. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (iv) and (vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (v). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only two of the criteria. Below, we address the third claimed criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioners must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
2 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner claims three qualifying research contributions: 
• He studied "the efficacy of.__ _____________ _. in preventing I 
I I hepatitis B virus (rBV: rearivation"; ~----~ 
• He "identified a series of markers and ) for the prediction of ... I lcancers"; and ~-------~ 
• He "discovered that I l . eliminated cancer stem cells and enhanced the efficacy of 
conventional chemotherapeutic drugs, suggesting a novel strategy for overcoming the 
chemoresistance during cancer treatment." 
The Petitioner asserts that the significance of his work is evident through heavy citation of his published 
work and "letters provided by independent experts in his field." As an example of the latter, a letter 
signed by a professor at the University! I Cancer Center includes the following 
passage: 
[The Petitioner] discovered that the reduced expression ofi I was associated with 
chemoresistance and the increased risk of tumor recurrence in patience with I I 
cancer, while the overexpression ofl I suppressed the growth of1 I cancer cells 
and enhanced chemosensitivity. He further elucidated the molecular mechanism and 
demonstrated tha~ I exerted its function mainly through the inhibition of the 
I I pathway. [The Petitioner's findin s identified! las a 
tumor suppressor! I and suggested that th ~------~ axis could serve as 
a valuable therapeutic target for enhancing chemosensitivity and suppressing tumor 
recurrence itj !cancer. 
Apart from the speculative nature of the assertion that the Petitioner's findings "suggested:' what "could 
serve as a valuable therapeutic target," a letter signed by the chairman of the Prostate Cancer Research 
and Education Foundation contains nearly identical wording: 
[The Petitioner] discovered that the reduced expression of~-------~, was 
associated with chemo-resistance and the increased risk of tumor recurrence in patience 
with! 0 I cancer, while the overexpression ofl I su pressed the growth o~ I 
cancer cells and enhanced chemo-sensitivi wit exerting its function mainly 
through the inhibition of the,__ ________ __,pathway. This work highlighted 
thel I axis as a valuable therapeutic target for enhancing chemo 
sensitivity and suppressing tumor recurrence inl I cancer. 
These similarities strongly suggest common authorship. See Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 
489 F .3d 51 7, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that 
when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by 
its quality. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 
3 
I&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). This evidence necessarily raises questions about who actually wrote 
(rather than signed) the other submitted letters. 
The remaining letters describe different work by the Petitioner, but fit the same pattern of describing 
specific findings in technical detail without explaining how they are of major significance (rather than 
merely interesting or useful). For instance, an assistant professor at the Universit~ I states 
that the Petitioner "identified the underlying mechanism b] whicH I suppressed the transcription 
oft I by increasing th~._ _________ __. promoter," but does not explain why this 
particular finding is more significant than the findings published in many other articles each year. 
A senior scientist at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration states that the Petitioner's "work has been 
adopted by the I I and the,___ ___________ __, 
~---------- ...... in their guidelines for international physicians," but does not elaborate. 
Other documents in the record show that the Petitioner is a co-author of one of 60 articles cited in the 
bibliography of an article in a~ ljoumal, establishing ~------r--.----~' for I I 
' and one of more than 200 articles cited in an article in a journal, setting forth 
" Thel I article ~------------------------,-----r--~ cites the Petitioner's paper to support the observation that "~ __ __. is more effective than I I for the prevention of HBV reactivation associated with I I 
chemoimmunotherapy." The0, article cites the Petitioner's work to show that "recent studies 
suggest thatl ~ can be successfully usld in rrronic HBV] patients." The record does not 
include information from either thd I or the which would support a finding that citations 
of this type are indicative of contributions of major significance. Because each article cites dozens or 
hundreds of sources for guidelines on relatively narrow topics, it is reasonable to infer that the 
organizations' complete guidelines rely on a substantially greater number of sources. 
The articles establishing the clinical guidelines do not indicate that the Petitioner developed the drugs 
discussed, or discovered new applications for them. Rather, they cite an article in which the Petitioner 
and his collaborators discussed a clinical trial of drugs already in use to treat hepatitis B. The record 
shows that the citation rate of the Petitioner's article places it among the top 1 % of articles in its field 
from 2014. This is not an insignificant citation rate, but the record does not sufficiently establish the 
nature and extent of the Petitioner's contributions to the paper. The Petitioner was one of 15 authors 
of the paper, which described a clinical trial involving more than 60 patients~--------~ 
I I Given the size of the undertaking, the burden is on the Petitioner to specify the nature of his 
involvement in the study. There is no presumption that he conceived, designed, or directed the study, 
rather than received author credit by virtue of treating and collecting data from some of the patients 
involved in the study. We note that, although various individuals have signed letters on the Petitioner's 
behalf, the principal authors of the highly-cited articles are not among those individuals. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that three of his other articles have amassed citations placing them in 
the top 1 % for their respective years of publication. For the reasons discussed below, these articles do 
not establish that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance: 
• The Petitioner is one of 10 authors of a 2010 article describing a clinical trial that spanned 
several institutions and involved 140 patients. The record establishes that the Petitioner was 
4 
one of several participating physicians, but does not specify the nature of his contributions to 
the study described in the paper. 
• A 2014 article about I I profiling and I I cancer. The Petitioner previously 
submitted the first page of this article among many other examples of his work, but did not 
discuss this article. The submitted letters do not mention the research behind this article. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not explain how it relates to any of the three identified contributions 
that he specifically claims to be of major significance. 
• A 2017 article associating the reduced expression o~~--~lwith chemoresistance. This article, 
which we discussed above, is the subject of the passage that appeared in more than one letter. 
This article has a much lower citation count, but reached the top 1 % of citations because it was 
published less than two years before the petition's September 2018 filing date, and even low 
citation numbers can reach high percentages in the time immediately following publication. 
The Petitioner has not presented a consistent, specific, and fully corroborated claim regarding the 
significance of his contributions. Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. In this instance, the 
Petitioner has satisfied the plain wording of two of the regulatory criteria through activities that are 
routine in the field of medical research -specifically, authorship of scholarly articles and peer review 
of articles written by others. A few of his co-authored articles have received a significant number of 
citations, but, as explained above, the Petitioner has not shown that his specific contributions to those 
papers are of major significance in the field. Participation in an influential study does not inherently 
meet this high threshold. Letters submitted to support the petition describe the findings from some of 
the Petitioner's papers, but do not detail the Petitioner's contributions to those articles or establish 
their significance other than in general and speculative terms. Furthermore, as discussed above, the 
provenance of the letters is questionable. 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10896915 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability as a wrestling coach. 1 This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
determining that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director 
subsequently dismissed two motions determining that the record did not demonstrate that he achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim, nor did he show that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 3 
We review the questions in this matter de novo.4 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
4 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."5 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 6 
II. ANALYSIS 
After gaining experience as a wrestling competitor for approximately 15 years, the Petitioner became 
a wrestling assistant eventually moving into the head coach ofl I wrestling in the National 
Youth Wrestling Team ofl I He further attained a degree unrelated to the claimed field of 
expertise from his home country. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to prizes or awards, published material, and judging, but that 
he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original contributions of major significance, 
performing in a leading or critical role, or commanding a high salary or remuneration. We agree that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the regulatory requirements the Director positively identified, and we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
5 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). 
2 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 7 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
We begin noting that the Petitioner filed this petition in September 2017. The Director, in the decision 
on the second motion, concluded that the Petitioner had not shown sustained acclaim because the 
record lacked achievements recognizing his achievements after 201 7. As the Petitioner is required to 
demonstrate eligibility as of the date he filed the petition, his accomplishments at that time should 
establish whether he qualifies for this classification. 8 Therefore, we do not agree with the Director's 
analysis as it relates to the Petitioner's achievements ceasing in 201 7. 
The Petitioner received several awards as a competitor, then began coaching in 2014 where he also 
received recognition as a coach. The Petitioner received a coach ofthelyouthlteam certificate for the 
team's first place finishes at the 20161 !Championship and the Championships in that 
same year. '----------~--- the international governing body for amateur wrestling, 
issued these certificates. These competitions were also discussed in a news article that demonstrates 
national attention in the country o±1 I While the two awards appear notable, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that demonstrates how this level of success compares with other coaches such 
that it illustrates his place is among those in the top few percentage in the field. For instance, the 
record does not establish the number of national or international events the Petitioner's team competed 
in during his time as a coach, or how his record of success compares to other wrestling coaches. 
Additionally, the Petitioner's coaching awards appear to be within an age-limited, youth category. It 
is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that awards won coaching in age-limited competitions are 
indicative of status among the top of the field, including the most experienced wrestling coaches. As a 
result, while the Petitioner has shown he is accomplished in this area, he has not demonstrated that he is 
one of "that small percentage of individuals that have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor."9 
Published material about the Petitioner and his work in the field consisted of several articles. However, 
the Petitioner only demonstrated that two of those articles garnered attention sufficient to be 
considered major media at the national level in his home country. The record lacks evidence showing 
how this overall media coverage indicates a level of success within that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 10 Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting on him and his work activities reflected a career of acclaimed work in the field 
or that it was indicative of the very high standard to present more extensive documentation. 11 
7 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (Policy Memo) 
(stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the 
immigrant classification). 
8 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
9 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
3 
With regard to the Petitioner's judging experience, he served as a referee for the I !Wrestling 
Federation from 2012 through 2017. In that time, he received four certificates of recognition for 
refereeing cadet and junior-level competitors in local or amateur-level competitions in 2015 and 2016. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that his service in this capacity evaluating 
age-limited cadet and junior groups-ranging in age from 15 to 20 years old-places him among the 
top of the field. Although the Petitioner provided one article discussing his work as a referee, the 
author of that article focused on the distinguished reputation of another referee, relegating discussion 
of the Petitioner to a group of less experienced and younger referees who had achieved a lower level 
of success. 
Additionally, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml l I I has served as 
an Olympic referee in four consecutive Olympic games and was awarded 2014's Best Referee of the 
World in the form of a Golden Whistle I I Within his letter! I did not describe 
the Petitioner's achievements as a referee at a level approaching his own accomplishments, and instead 
discussed the importance of the Petitioner's unbiased personal characteristics in this role. Without 
material that sets him apart from others in the field, the Petitioner has not shown that extensive 
documentation exists relating to his achievements, or that his judging experience places him among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor.12 
The Petitioner did not describe the following elements within his appeal brief However, we consider 
them within our final merits determination as part of the totality of the record. The Petitioner's claimed 
original contribution of major significance is a wrestling move namedl I described as I I 
throw technique in which he differs from other similar moves through only using the I I instead of 
thd I and an "exceptional use of torque." Media coverage in the form of two interviews 
with the Petitioner discussed this contribution, and the Petitioner demonstrated that one of those 
articles garnered national circulation within his home country. 
Additionally, letters from prominent former competitors and current coaches acknowledge that his 
technique is unique and original, and that wrestling teams from countries outside the Petitioner's own 
have implemented the move. Here, the letters described his contribution without showing how it rises 
to a level of major significance in the field and how it is reflective of an individual who has garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation.13 
As it relates to the Petitioner's performance in a leadin or critical role for or anizations with a 
distinguished reputation, his position as head coach of the ~-----r--------""TT""--~..., I I was discussed within two letters. The first letter was fr:._::o::.::::====::::;---------j ~---~ 
president, who stated the Petitioner contributed immensely to thd !wrestling team leadership 
and global status, and that was due solely to the Petitioner's excellent energy and decision-making 
skills. I l12rovided the second letter and provided an identical statement as it relates to 
the Petitioner's role forl I'. Due to the lengthy passage of identical language within these two 
letters, we question the reliability of the assertions within this correspondence. Regardless of the 
origin of this text, this does not meet the preponderance of the evidence standard to establish that the 
12 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
13 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
4 
relevant and identical content is the authors' firsthand account of the facts at issue. 14 This has a 
significant adverse effect on the probative value of their statements on this topic and such material is 
not wholly representative of one who has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. Aside 
from this evidentiarily deficient correspondence, the Petitioner did not offer other probative evidence 
demonstrating the acclaim he has received for his work forl I As a result, the documentation 
the Petitioner submitted was not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level 
of expertise indicating that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his 
field. 
We note that the Petitioner did not offer evidence demonstrating he satisfied the category relating to a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
While he did demonstrate his annual salary and bonuses, and provided one letter that claimed he was 
the highest paid coach in thel O I at three time the rate of any other coach, he was 
unable to offer probative documentation to corroborate these assertions. Such statements made without 
supporting documentation are of limited probative value and are insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof 15 The absence of adequately comparative data prevents the Petitioner from 
demonstrating his salary or remuneration is among those within "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 16 
Although the Petitioner provides a letter from the head coach of USA Wrestling stating his desire to 
have the alien join the team as a coach, that relates to activities occurring after the petition filing date. 
While we will not consider that intent as part of the Petitioner's accolades within these proceedings, 
it does satisfy the requirement that the alien seeks to continue work in his area of expertise in the 
United States. 17 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 18 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that he has received recognition 
for his coaching efforts through awards, published articles, and his service judging the work of others. 
However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his 
national or international acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in 
the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive 
documentation exhibiting his attainment of a level of expertise placing him among that small 
percentage that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
14 In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See 
Chawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 376 (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 T&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
15 Matter of Soffici, 22 T&N Dec. 158, 165 (Comm'r 1998). 
16 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
17 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A)(ii); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
18 See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11283620 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of engineering for an e-commerce company , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at 
least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is currently employed as a director of software engineering with 
I l where he has worked in H-lB nonimmigrant status since October 2015. He joined 
~----~lwith 15 years of pro ressive ex erience in the software en ineering field, most recently 
as an assistant vice president fo where he worked from 2014 
to 2015. The Petitioner has a bachelor of technology degree from ~-----------~ University in India. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria pertaining to leading or critical roles and high 
salary. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the original contributions criterion and 
asserts that the Director did not properly weigh the submitted evidence of his business and engineering 
related contributions and the significance of these contributions in his field. 
We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. The Petitioner meets only the two criteria 
granted by the Director. We will discuss the remaining claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
2 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his original contributions have been widely accepted and implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he provided ample evidence of his original contributions to the 
software engineering field and asserts that the Director failed to discuss the detailed information 
contained in letters from his current and former employers, submitted at the time of filing. The record 
also includes two expert opinion letters from university professors in the computer science field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's contributions during his tenure ate=] he provided a letter from 
I ts Senior Vice President -Head of Digital Product Strategy.I ~ indicates 
that he previously served as Head of Product Development withinl business 
division, noting he frequently interacted with the Petitioner, who he describes as "the lead 
development engineer" within the division and "one of the firm's most important technical 
contributors to the broader suite of core innovative products for our department." He describes I I as a "single integrated messaging and connectivity engine" that was "specially designed 
for asset managers, insurance companies, banks ... and other technology platforms." 
~---~I goes on to describe some of the Petitioner's contributions to the division, noting that he 
"engineered and developed a remarkable and outstanding multi-bank event management and 
notification workflow solution designed to simplify the most challenging corporate actions lifecycle 
processes." He explains the complexity of the problem addressed by this workflow solution, and notes 
that the system "adds a strategic advantage" compared to "traditional systems." He describes its 
features, and states that there are "no off-the-shelf software solutions available that can match these 
capabilities and provide this end to end workflow." I I also credits the Petitioner with 
developing "an advanced configurable rule-based engine to process complex rules to handle data from 
several message systems" and describes the capabilities of this solution. 
While this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner made original engineering contributions toe=] s I F division that benefited the company and its clients, it does not establish how such 
contributions to~s products have remarkably impacted or influenced the field or industry.c=J I I praises the Petitioner's "in-depth knowledge on building scalable real time systems and his 
ability to lead a team to successfully [] execute on his vision to drive significant business upside" as 
well as his ability "to delight customers with pioneering solutions to challenging problems." He also 
generally states that the types of solutions the Petitioner developed "can be useful for systems and 
organizations that exchange data," but does not elaborate on their impact on the field. In order to 
establish that his contributions ate=] satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his 
contributions have been widely implemented in the field or have otherwise been recognized for their 
major significance. The record does not include, for example, evidence that other com1anies have 
adopted the types of engineering solutions he helped develop during his tenure at The plain 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
3 
language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an impact 
beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013). While the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner possesses technological knowledr 
and skills that enabled him to solve engineering challenges faced byc=]and its clients,! s 
letter does not establish how his contributions impacted the field. 
In the RFE, the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional independent, 
objective evidence, beyond testimonial letters, to establish that his contributions have significantly 
influenced the field. The Petitioner's response to the RFE included two expert opinion letters from 
university professors, which we will discuss further below, and copies of previously submitted evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner now asks that we consider "several industry articles" intended to provide 
supplemental explanations of the im act of his work on the field. The evidence includes: 1 an October 
2013 ress release titled 
'· 2 a 2015 ress release titled ~-----t 
and 3 a 2018 ress release 
published by Business Insider, which announces the company's release of.__ _____ __, 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first 
time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 
533 (BIA 1988). Further, even if we review this evidence along withl ts letter, the record 
would not support a determination that the Petitioner made original contributions of major significance 
while employed b~ I The 2013 press release pre-dates the Petitioner's employment withe=] by 
a year and the 2018 press release post-dates his tenure by over two years. We also note that the spepi.fi.c; ~ts mentioned in these press releases! I are not referenced byLJ 
L___J in his letter. Finally, while these product releases were deemed sufficiently significant to 
warrant the company's issuance of a press release, the press releases alone do not demonstrate how 
these technologies remarkably impacted the field. 
The referenced 2015 press release coincides with the Petitioner's one-ear tenure withc=]but marks 
the automation of 1.3 million fund orders "throu h th s I I offshore fund platform andL...---r---i-------' over a period of three years (since 2012). 
However, sincec=]s relationship with~_~predated the Petitioner's tenure with the company, 
the press release alone does not establish that his contributions to the existing! I platform 
remarkably impacted the industry and such contributions were not addressed inl Vs letter. 
The Petitioner has also provided two letters that directly address his contributions during his tenure at I I. is described in the record asl I retailer of1 I sports 
merchandise L-------------~__J ............................. ~ofessional sports leagues and for over 
300 collegiate and professional team properties . .__ ____ _., the company's Chief Technology & 
Product Officer, credits the Petitioner with developing new capabilities for itsl I 
Platform which have significantly contributed to the company's revenue growth. He explains that the 
Petitioner's unique combination of software en ineering skills enabled his design and development of 
I I and which have enabled the com an to offer fans I I gear ~------------------------------~ 
4 
D and other major sports franchises. He states that "80+ business managers working on 300+ sites 
use these tools on a regular basis." 
I !further describes these tools in considerable detail, noting that few engineers have the 
diverse skill set required to meet the company's technological challen es and attributing! I 
significant sales growth to the Petitioner's enhancements of its platform. He also 
discusses the Petitioner's work on the platform's~-----~system, noting that he developed 
a I I system" which he describes as a "unique solution which very few companies 
across the world have attempted." I I explains that thel I 
system the Petitioner built allowsl I payment systems to operate in a fall back mode and 
.__ __________________________________ ____. during 
primary gateway down times." 
The Petitioner also provided a letter form I • I Vice President of Product Technology at I l who states that he leads product management for all aspects ofi t cloud commerce 
platform. I I likd I highly praises the Petitioner's engineering talent and 
leadership abilities and discusses his contributions to the company's! I platform. He 
highlights thd I solution (noting the Petitioner solved a "problem that every payment 
accepting! I faces"), ~ I System ( a security feature that detects anomalies in user 
activities), and the Petitioner's integration ofl I risk analysis engine to protect the 
platform from abuse. 
The contributions described byl I an~ I are novel and innovative in that they 
fill the unique needs of the I I platform, and their letters establish that the Petitioner has 
performed in a critical capacity for the company. However, the record does not establish how such 
contributions have had a significant impact or influence on thel I software technology field 
outside of the company. The record does not establish, for example, that the Petitioner's enhancements 
to th~ I platform have generated widespread commentary or discussion in the field or that 
other I I companies have modeled their I I platforms on enhancements the 
Petitioner made to th~ I platform. 
A letter froml 6 business architect withl l also discusses the Petitioner's work 
in th~ I field.I !describes the Petitioner as "an avid open source contributor for 
many public open-source software libraries" and that states his work "is very significant to a large 
scale platform which deals with data." He credits the Petitioner with: designing and implementing a 
scalable platform called! Ito power business analytics; designing dynamic configuration 
capabilities and an intelligent! I that allow an application/website behavior to be 
changed dramatically; developing tracking software that can benefit "many small scale-to-medium 
I !companies"; and introducing speedy checkout tol !checkout payment flows. 
With respect tol I paymentsJ I states that the "integration models and interfaces 
built by [the Petitioner] are significantly helping! I companies the way [sic] customers can 
make payments on any! I websites in a more secure and simplified way." However, he does 
not offer any specific examples, and the record does not contain supporting evidence, of how these 
technologies have been adopted by any companies other than the Petitioner's own employer. Simply 
stating that the Petitioner developed novel solutions that could be useful to other organizations is not 
5 
sufficient to show that his work has already proven to be remarkably impactful or influential in the 
field. 
Finally, we have considered the expert opinion letters of two professors of computer science. USCIS 
may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility . The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. 
ln his letter,! lo~ I University summarizes ilielletters g[°vided byD I ~ and I and the contributions the Petitioner made t{LJ and He concludes 
that his contributions are beneficial to the companies he has worked for and "will have lasting effects 
on the industry as a whole." He states that "[t]his is evident based on a simple comparison of similar 
platforms at other companies" noting that some features the Petitioner developed ad I are "some 
of the first to be contained in technologies of this nature and have the potential to be patented." 
Although his letter supports a finding that the Petitioner's contributions are novel, he does not state 
that those contributions have already impacted or influenced the broader industry . 
.__ _____ ___.I Professor and Chair of Computer Science at University! I 
indicates that the Petitioner "has made major original business contributions m the form of 
groundbreaking technology innovations in the field o~ I" Like ________ he 
discusses the letters provided by the Petitioner's employers, noting that the letters establish his ability 
to develop specific technology solutions that "improve the efficiency and overall profitability of 
standard processes," and noting that such solutions have "far-reaching significance." He further states 
that such achievements "are far outside the ken of the vast majority of developers and software 
engineers, and as such extend their influence into the industry at large." However, these statements 
are general and do not specify how the Petitioner's contributions have been of "major significance" in 
the field within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . 
,___ __ ____.lalso highlights the Petitioner's work onl I atl I noting that "this 
contribution extends far outside of its immediate application" at his employer. He notes that I I is a "cutting edge security solution" used inl I and retail banking, and states 
that the Petitioner's I I solution stands out as among the 
leading advancements in this area in the short time since the development of the I I 
technology" and "bears major significance for the over......,....__ ___ ..... industry" by "adding to the 
growing number of technical improvements in the area o nd increasing competition in 
the same." Although! I refers to the Petitioner's work on.__ __ _. payment system as a 
"leading advancement" that has added to the incremental innovations in a growing area of technology, 
the record does not contain supporting evidence or specific examples showing that this advancement 
has already extended "far outside its immediate application" ad I such that it could be deemed 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
In summary, the submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or impact his work atOandl I has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
6 
subsequent work add value. 2 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 Moreover, 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. 
Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
3 Id. at 9. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12709174 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior user experience (UX) designer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that she has been employed as a UI/UX Lead Designer fo~ I since 
2016. She received her bachelor's degree in graphic design froml lin 
Venezuela in 2004 and a master's degree in design and applied arts, specializing in 3D animation and 
post-production, froml I in Spain in 2007. The Petitioner's resume 
reflects that she has approximately 15 years of professional experience as a web designer, multimedia 
director, and senior UI/UX designer. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, 1 she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
• (vii), Display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to awards and leading or 
critical roles with distinguished organizations. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in 
determining that she did not also satisfy the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and the high 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that the Silveri !Award she received in 2011 is a major, internationally 
recognized award, but does not contest the Director's determination that the award does not satisfy the requirements of a 
qualifying one-time achievement pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).2 Upon review, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without explaining his determination. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors. 4 Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this 
criterion, we will withdraw that determination. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she and five of her coworkers at s I !office received a silverl !Award in 2011 for a piece entered under the 
Health Services and Communications' I I medium in the .__ ____ _.category.5 The 
record includes information about thc==]A wards an~ IA wards from the awarding entity's 
website and Wikipedia. The Petitioner also provided: a 2019 Variety article about theD Awards' 
launching of a newL I awards program; a 2010 New York Post article about the 
return of the mairc=] Awards ceremony to I r: a Forbes article about the 2017 
Awards ceremony, identifying some of the notable winners; and evidence thrat~---1------...J 
issued a press release announcing the company's receipt of the 2011 Silve award. This 
evidence does not address the si9nificance of the Petitioner's Silver~---~award, and does 
demonstrate, for example, that tht:i_ I Awards program enjoys the major media coverage or 
same recognition as that documented for the mainl I awards. Further, the evidence does 
not demonstrate that allc=]Awards across all different programs, categories and award levels are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 7 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that she did not satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-. 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Aft); Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark. No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the 
court determined the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 Id. 
5 The evidence indicates that the DA wards has six separate recognition programs for creative businesses in adve1iising, 
,.§QQI,tS, fashion, music, entertainment, and healthcare. In addition, the record reflects that mu. !tip le gold, silver, and bronze 
l_Jawards ma] be presented in each specific category within each of the awards programs, with the highest honor being 
the i~---~ award. 
6 The referenced Variety article mentions that thd IA wards are online only and do not have an awards ceremony. 
3 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that she received a 2018-2019 "Ironl I Award" in the 
Category" for her work on I I --------.------------------~ .__ ___ ....,,.....educational app. According to information provided on the award certificate, the "Iron" 
level award is given to designs judged to be in the top 20th percentile of entries to thel [ Award 
& Competition. The Petitioner submitted two online articles regarding the 2017-2018 edition of this 
awards program, from Design Boom (designboom.com) and Design Curial (designcurial.com). The 
articles indicate that in 2017-2018, thel I competition announced over 1900 award winners in 
in 99 design disciplines with five levels of distinction -platinum, gold, silver, bronze and iron -and 
featured some of the winning work. The Petitioner did not submit any press or media coverage related 
to the 2018-2019 edition of the competition in which she participated. The record does not include 
sufficient independent evidence of the national or international recognition associated with this award 
in general or with the "Iron" award received by the Petitioner. 8 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner maintains that the Director erred in determining that she did not submit evidence that 
she meets this criterion. 
As a preliminary matter we note that, after evaluating the Petitioner's evidence related to the display 
of her work, the Director also observed that this criterion is limited to the "visual arts" and that the 
Petitioner is "not a visual artist" who has created "tangible pieces of art that were on display at 
exhibitions or showcases." We disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner, whose work 
products as a multimedia artist and UX/UI designer include artistic elements, is not a "visual artist." 
Nevertheless, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that her portfolio be found online at 
several websites in the design field, including the website of the American Institute of Graphic Artists 
(AIGA) (aiga.org), Behance (behance.net) and The One Club (oneclub.org). The Director determined 
that the online member galleries and portfolios that reside on these websites are intended to serve as 
marketing and promotional platforms for participating/member artists and do not qualify as "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
has not pursued her claim that she meets the display criterion based on this evidence. 
Rather, the Petitioner's claims on appeal solely focus on the display ofthel I app and its graphic 
artwork at[ l.'s exhibition at the 20161 I 
Festival id I Texas. The evidence in the record confirms that the Petitioner contributed to the 
8 The record also reflects the Petitioner's receipt of an I I "'ward as part of an .,_I __________ __. 
team, and I ~s receipt of"' I !?018.__ ____ __,Silver Award tori I. We note that the 
Petitioner did not claim that the I I award was a qualifying award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, when 
res~onding to the Director's request for evidence, she did not pursue her initial claim that she meets this criterion based on 
theL I award after the Director observed that she was not the direct recipient of this award. 
4 
creation of thel I mobile app while employed as Lead UI/UX Designer fo~~---~ I lin Taiwan from 2012 to 2013. The record reflects that the app was featured as part of an 
exhibit promoting the 2016 I !festival's 1 t concert, and as a way for fans to track 
and interact with the I I music artists who performed at the concert. The Director, in 
determining that the Petitioner did not establish her eligibility under this criterion, observed that the 
purpose of the display atl I was not to display the Petitioner's design work, but rather to display 
the features of the software app and to promote the product. He emphasized that the Petitioner's name 
did not appear in any of the submitted promotional materials or media reports for the festival. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that thel I app was featured atl las an emerging 
technology, noting that "[a]rt can take many forms and in this case, it was used to design a software 
app." In support of the appeal, she submits a letter froml l a representative ofD I I confirming that she worked for this company as a freelancer fr9ffi-2.0.t 5 to 2016 to help 
"rebrand the previous! I App to a Music band location-....,.,..,........,,.........,,p forl__J' noting that "she 
handled the iOS design as well as web design and illustrations." confirms that she contributed 
to thel !exhibition by creating illustrations for the.__ __ __, artists who performed at the music 
festival and brought attention to the mobile app features and the music bands. The Petitioner also 
provides an e-mail from al I representative verifying that.__ ______ ~was an exhibitor 
atl 12016. 
The Petitioner does not address, however, the fact that she did not provide evidence that her 
contributions to the dis lay booth atl lwere publicly credited or attributed 
to her. We cannot determine that the booth at festival qualifies as an "artistic exhibition or 
showcase" of her work if she was not identified as the artist responsible for creating the work. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on her earnings as a UI/UX Lead Designer 
forl I The Petitioner states that her annual salary is $130,000. Her latest IRS Form W-2 
indicates that she earned $124,107.84 in 2019. 
To establish that she has a commanded a "high salary" in relation to others, the Petitioner submitted 
comparative wage data for "Graphic Designers." The initial evidence, obtained from the U.S. 
Department of Labor (DOL) Federal Labor Certification Data Center (www.flcdatacenter.com), shows 
a "Level 4 Wage" of $85,197 for graphic designers in thd I area where the 
Petitioner works. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner provided national salary data for "Senior Graphic 
Designers" from Glassdoor, indicating an average base pay of $55,421 and a high base pay of$79,000. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence from the DO L's Bureau of Labor Statistics, showing that the 
mean annual wage for graphic designers in the United States is $54,680, with a 90th percentile wage 
of $85,760. 
5 
The Director observed that the evidence shows that Petitioner's salary "is at the higher end of the 
spectrum for median wages of fully competent graphic designers, but she did not establish that she 
commands a 'high salary' compared to other graphic designers, nor did she provide enough 
information about the top earners in her field." On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously 
provided evidence establishes that her earnings are high compared to others in the field, whether that 
comparison is made nationally or to others working in the same geographic area. The Petitioner also 
submits additional data wage from the DOL's Career OneStop website, indicating that a high wage 
for graphic designer in the Petitioner's geographic area is $110,420. 
The DOL's description of the Graphic Designer occupation states that this position will "design or 
create graphics to meet specific commercial or promotional needs, such as packaging, displays or 
logos, and "may use a variety of mediums to achieve artistic or decorative effects." The evidence in 
the record does not establish that the Petitioner's duties as a lead UX/UI designer fore=] are the 
same as those of a graphic designer. The recommendation letters submitted in support of the petition 
also specify the Petitioner's area of specialization as UX/UI, interactive, web, and/or multimedia 
design, rather than "graphic design." 9 A letter frortj I indicates that the Petitioner hired and 
trained a team of designers who work under her leadership, but it does not indicate that she herself has 
been performing in a graphic designer position for the company. In her own statement, the Petitioner 
emphasizes that a "UX designer is concerned with the entire process of acquiring and integrating a 
product, including aspects of branding, design, usability and function." The Petitioner did not submit 
an explanation for submitting comparative data for graphic designers. 
Therefore, we conclude that the salary data provided for graphic designers did not allow for a 
comparison of the Petitioner's salary as a UX/UI lead designer "in relation to others in the field." See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). While her work may include elements of"graphic design," the record does not establish 
that her documented earnings are based on her performance of the duties of the "graphic designer" 
position described in the submitted DOL wage surveys. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that she receives a high salary in relation to 
others in her field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
9 We note that the DOL collects and reports independent salary data for Multimedia Artists and for Web Developers and 
Digital Interface Designers. 
6 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13454774 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an applied mechanics engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
subsequent appeal. The Petitioner now submits a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider , together with new evidence, and asserts that he meets three evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us on motion is whether the Petitioner has either submitted new facts sufficient to 
warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was based on an 
incorrect application of USCIS law or policy. 
A. AAO Decision 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he meets five of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to judging 
the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We 
determined that the Petitioner met the authorship of scholarly articles criterion. However, we withdrew 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion after concluding that there 
was insufficient evidence of his participation in peer review activities. We also determined that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied the criteria relating to memberships and published materials. We reserved and 
2 
did not discuss the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that the Petitioner 
would not satisfy the initial evidence requirements even if he established that this criterion had been met. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the criteria relating to judging the work of others and original 
contributions. Specifically, he asserts that we overlooked certain evidence that was previously submitted 
and states that he is submitting new evidence establishing that he meets the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also requests that we review all evidence related to the original contributions 
criterion that we previously reserved, including new evidence submitted on motion. 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the new evidence submitted in support of the motion 
to reopen establishes that the Petitioner meets the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
However, he has not established that he meets a third criterion and has therefore not met the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As discussed, the Petitioner's combined motion addresses only two of the five criteria initially 
claimed. The Petitioner does not contest our determination that he did not satisfy the criteria relating 
to membership in associations and published materials about him and relating to his work. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In our appellate decision, we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had satisfied 
this criterion. We acknowledged that the Petitioner had claimed eligibility based on his review of 
papers at the 2010 Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies (AMPT2010) conference, but 
determined that the submitted evidence only indicated that he had accepted an invitation to act as a 
peer reviewer for AMPT2010. Specifically, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted an e-mail 
from the conference chairman reminding him to conduct his paper reviews in a timely manner, but we 
found this evidence alone insufficient to establish that he actually fulfilled his role as a peer reviewer 
for the conference. We also noted that the record included a letter from I I to the 
Petitioner inviting him "to act as a reviewer" for two journals in his field; however, we emphasized 
that the Petitioner did not provide any documentary evidence establishing that he actually reviewed 
papers or manuscripts for either journal. 
In his brief on motion, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient 
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he met this criterion based on his peer review 
activities. We disagree as the Petitioner has not explained how the evidence referenced above 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
confirmed his participation as a judge. 2 The fact that the AMPT2000 conference chair thanked the 
Petitioner in advance for agreeing to participate and reminded him to complete his review in a timely 
manner does not establish that he ultimately completed his assigned peer review activities for this 
conference. 
However, the Petitioner also submits new evidence in support of his motion to reopen that is sufficient 
to establish that he meets this criterion based on his completion of peer review activities for the 
journals referenced inl ts earlier letter. 
As the Petitioner has now established that he has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
we will consider whether he has satisfied the third and final claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that he has made original contributions of major significance based on his 
doctoral dissertation at University! _ l in which he studied ~--~I wear i~~ __ ltaa)s clue tal !interactions, and based on his work as a senior applied 
mechanics engineer witli : I where he worked on the development and commercialization of 
I I supports and restraints forl I applications in the energy industry. 
The Petitioner references his submission of letters from colleagues and other scientists and experts 
regarding his original contributions in his field.4 The letters summarize the Petitioner's research 
achjeyemeTs anq...hmadlr discuss the potential impact of his mechanical engineering research in the I and L__J power industries. However, they do not establish that his original 
contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within these fields. 
With respect to the Petitiolner's grjduate researchJ I who served on the Petitioner's 
dissertation committee at notes that the Petitioner "had undertaken a difficult technical but 
important problem for developing countries'! I sustainability." He explains that the 
Petitioner' S study 0~ lwear od I tools rl'providr a solution methodology ... that allowed 
the time to replace the worn tool for developers o and farther states that "the results of [the 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that peer review for a journal may be a qualifying 
judging activity, provided that it is evidenced by a request from the journal to the individual petitioner to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the petitioner actually completed the review). 
3 Id. at 8-9 (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish 
that the work is of major significance). 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Petitioner's research] has impact in the field ofl I removal and failure that will aid in the 
development of betterl I tools and practices as the expanding need forc=J increases in 
importance for developing countries."~-------~ a mechanical engineering professor at I I also discusses the Petitioner's doctoral research,! noting I that "tool wear is a major issue in I I operations" which "can lead to a decrease in quality and frequent downtime of 
equipment." He explains that the Petitioner's research methodology "can be used to optimize the tool 
material and the tool geometry" and to undertake "a r
1gor1us study to understand the effects of 
parameters such as .. I I speed, power consumption, density, etc. has on the tool wear."c=] I !farther observes that the Petitioner's methodology "can potentially be used in designing 
new tools with increased wear-life that result in economic benefits." 
.__ ___ ~ __ _.I of~--------~ who indicates that he knows the Petitioner as "a 
professional, friend and neighbor," states that the Petitioner's study od I wear o~ I tools 
"can be used as a template to conduct an effective research on the study of wear phenomenon." He 
states that the Petitioner "has made enormous contributions that [are] directly applicable to the safety 
of complex mechanical systems," noting that his research techni ues have both safet and 
environmental benefits.~--------~of th L-----r----, __________ ____J 
states that the Petitioner's research in this area "is a boon for th_~--- industry and will be a great 
help to researchers working on to make thel I more efficient." While all of these letters speak 
to the applicability and potential of the Petitioner's methodology for predicting and measuring tool 
wear, none explains with sufficient specificity whether or how the Petitioner's research has already 
been widely implemented or significantly impacted the field. 
I I, a former faculty member at Oand research and development technology 
director at I I explains that the pg·' issertation research 
"adopted a fundamental approach of simulating the interaction of a particle with a tool, 
and developed a better understanding of the mechanism by which the particle 'scratches' on the 
surface of the tool." He states that the Petitioner's study provided fundamental insights into the 
mechanics of this wearing process, and that "[.,,__._...""""'-.........,~damental understanding can be utilized to 
better design tools to minimize! lwear." em hasizes that the Petitioner was invited 
to publish and present the results of his work at the 2012 Customer Conference, and notes 
that his work was also highlighted in the company magazine.__ __ ___. Community News. 5 He 
indicates that the conference invitation and wider dissemination in the magazine was "due to the 
technical quality and fundamental importance of this work, and its potential applicability in other areas 
where interactions ofl I particles and metal surfaces may be a concern." 
While the inclusion of the Petitioner's published work in conferences and journals reflects the 
originality of that work, his publications and presentations alone do not establish that his research has 
been regarded as an original contribution of major significance in his field. At the time of filing, the 
Petitioner rovided search results from Goo le Scholar indicating that his paper .... I------~---' 
.__ ______________________ _. had been cited by others a total of seven 
times since its publication in 2012. The Petitioner did not provide any comparative data suggesting 
5 The record reflects that an article title'-----------------~----------' I I appeared in the "Academic Update" section of the September/October 2012 issue of,__ _ ___,Community News. 
A letter froml I mentions tha~ lis the manufacturer of the finite element tool I I which the Petitioner applied in his research. 
5 
that this level of attention from other researchers reflects widespread commentary about his work that 
is commensurate with a remarkable influence or impact on that field. 
We have also considered letters of recommendation that address the Petitioner's work on the 
development ofl I systems used inl I production of electricity. I I, the Petitioner's former manager a~ I explains that the Petitioner and his team 
"spent four 4 years analyzing and developing the analysis of thQ supports manufactured and 
supplied byl t' and "established! I models with the objective to use the template file 
for analyzing the design of regular supports and the customized supports for the customers/in""d""'u=s-=t ....<.....e=c..., 
the industr for ower eneration." notes that the Petitioner ublished 
IC 
he credits as "a tremendous contribution to th-...._ _ ___. support industry." However, he does not 
explain how the Petitioner's study has impacted the industry or how it has been regarded as a 
"tremendous contribution." The record reflects that the referenced paper was accepted for the 2015 
ASME Power and Energy Conservation Conference. However, the evidence does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's work has been cited by other researchers or otherwise establish that the study has 
attracted widespread commentary or been implemented by others in the industry. 
I !formerly a project engineer for one ofi I customers, also describes the 
Pet1t10ner's research m this area, noting that "[h]e outlined a procedure for the design check and used 
analytical and finite element analysis tools to create the design checks." He discusses the above­
referenced paper, noting that "the comparison of almost forty years of Codes is a huge task" and "his 
approach is innovative and based on modem methods of technical evaluation." Finally,! I 
credits the Petitioner with making recommendations "that directly helped improve the safety and 
lessen the impact on the surrounding environment" but does not provide farther explanation or 
examples of how the Petitioner's study achieved these safety and environmental improvements or how 
it has been implemented in the industry. 
The record also contains two letters frortj I, the Petitioner's colleagu;.:e:....:a~l==0====: 
who explains that the company is a world leader in supports used in ._I ___ __ I I power production, as well as r----"l--_J andl I facilities. In 
addition to mentioning the study discussed above, indicates that the Petitioner was "placed 
in the lead role for developing a new, for I I, product line, supports," which 
he states are critical components used in the production o as. He explains that 
manufacturing of these supports was moved from a sister facility in China to s U.S. operations 
and that the Petitioner was "one of the leading influencers of making this transition successfol.'D I I also credits the Petitioner for being "intimately involved in developing automation ~ 
expedite the creation of these supports for new projects." Finally, he emphasizes that thesej_____J 
supports are developed for global and multi billion-dollar industries, and as such the Petitioner's 
"innovative work had a substantial contribution, not only economically but also in ensuring the safe 
implementation of these suppo " 's letter provides support for his conclusion that the 
Petitioner was a valuable asset t and a highly skilled engineer, but he does not explain how 
his role in the transfer of his employer's~----~ support manufacturing from China to the 
United States amounts to an original contribution of major significance in the field, or sufficiently 
explain how the Petitioner tremendously impacted "the safe implementation of these supports," which 
he indicates must be designed in accordance with industry codes and regulations. 
6 
Overall, the letters recognize the originality, importance, and/or prospective benefit of the Petitioner's 
graduate research and professional contributions atl I but do not contain detailed information 
showing the unusual influence or hiah imprt the Petitioner's contributions have already had in the 
engineering field or in the I I an support industries. With respect to his graduate research, 
the letters, including those not specifically mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's original work has added value to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened 
avenues for further research into the causes and measurement of wear on tools and machines used in I I The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of attention his work has 
received in this area reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the 
mechanical engineering field regard~ork as authoritative. Similarly, while the Petitioner 
published a study during his tenure atl__Jand introduced efficiencies into itsD support design 
process, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had in the wider field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
Although the Petitioner submits additional letters on motion, they do not offer further insight into how 
his original research has already influenced or impacted the field. For example,! I 
states that the methodology the Petitioner generated in his dissertation "finds a wider application in 
the various industrial sectors" and notes that "companies associated with thd I industry and 
implementing [the Petitioner's] research can have an upper hand over their competitors." He does 
not identify specific companies that had already implemented the Petitioner's methodology into their 
design and development oj loj I tools or otherwise elaborated! on any f ocumented 
impacts of his work. The record also contains background information on the andl I 
production industries and their importance but it does not follow that any research that contributes to 
incremental advancements in an important industry is an original contribution of major significance 
within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision, nor 
does the new evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13072199 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cancer researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not establish, as required, that he seeks to enter 
the United States to continue working in his field of claimed extraordinary ability, and that his entry 
into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a ~racticing clinical physician who also conducts research, focusing on cancer of the 
I land I I. He has worked at various teaching hospitals, including..c===], 
East HosRital, where he served as an associate professor and associate chief doctor, and thel____J 
Branch ofl I General Hospital, where he is one of three deputy directors. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At the time of the Director's decision, the Petitioner claimed to have 
met five criteria, summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two evidentiary criteria numbered (iv) and (vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other three claimed evidentiary criteria, and a sixth 
criterion, numbered (ix), relating to high salary or remuneration for services. 
We will not consider this newly claimed criterion during these appeal proceedings. The Petitioner did 
not claim to have satisfied this criterion until he filed the appeal. The purpose of an appeal is to establish 
error in the decision being appealed. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) requires that an appellant 
2 
"identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." Because the 
Petitioner had never previously claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the Director cannot have erred 
with respect to the criterion. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only two criteria. We discuss the other three claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Documentation in the record indicates that China's Ministry of Education issued 314 "2007 Science and 
Technology Awards for Higher Education," including 54 "First Class" "Science and Technology Progress 
Awards." One of those awards, for "Basic and clinical research on I I 
~---------------~ 'went to 15 recipients, including the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "was selected for this award based on rigorous selection criteria and 
competed against highly qualified candidates," but he submits no documentary evidence from the 
awarding entity to corroborate these assertions. (The Petitioner submits third-party statements purporting 
to describe the award selection process, but the individuals making those statements do not claim to 
participate in that process, nor do they cite first-hand sources for the information they provide.) He has 
not submitted the selection criteria, and therefore we cannot determine how rigorous they are. Also, the 
record does not provide any basis for comparing the Petitioner's qualifications to those of unsuccessful 
candidates for the award. 
It is significant that the awarding entity is China's Ministry of Education, rather than a ministry primarily 
concerned with health or science. In 2007, the year covered by the award, the Petitioner was in his first 
year of postdoctoral training. The available evidence suggests, therefore, that the award is intended for 
students and trainees, rather than established researchers and scientists who have completed their training. 
The Petitioner has not established the recognition accorded to this award. 
The Petitioner submits a copy of a "Certificate of Completion of Scientific and Technological 
Achievements" from China's Minist of Education. The certificate indicates that the Petitioner 
completed a ~--------~" The Petitioner does not explain how this constitutes a prize or award, 
rather than what it appears to be on its face -specifically, proof that he completed a project. 
The Petitioner also cites "two funding awards from the prestigious National Natural Science Foundation 
of China," which "grants funding to approximately 38,000 projects each year." There is no evidence that 
the Petitioner personally received this funding in recognition of excellence in his field. Rather, the 
research institution where he worked received the funds, for the purposes specified in the grant 
applications. The evidence submitted indicates that grant funding is determined by a given project's 
budget requirements, rather than excellence in the field of endeavor. These grants support ongoing or 
future research, rather than recognize past achievements. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that he received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in cancer research. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claims four original contributions of major significance. Three of these contributions relate 
to the use of IL-24, an interleukin protein, in the treatment ofl !cancer: 
I He was lead researcher in a study that "provided lbjec1ive evidence ... that I L-24 can selectively 
destroy! I cancer cells while leaving normal cells intact"; 
I He led a "study of IL-24 and its synergistic effect with interferons for the treatment ofl I 
cancer"· and 
I He "dis~overed that IL-24 increases the sensitivity ofl I cancer cells to chemotherapy." 
The Petitioner was also "a lead researcher in a comprehensive study to demonstrate the importance of 
peripheral tissues i nc=J tr1nspllnt patients," and "was one of the ti rst cancer researchers to discover that 
the chances of a successful transplant are substantially higher when peripheral tissues of tha I ~ remain intact." The Petitioner asserts that he I I provide 
objective evidence of IL-24['s] effectiveness in treating! I cancer." Being the first attests to the 
originality of a contribution, but not necessarily to its significance. The burden is on the Petitioner to 
show the significance of being the first, or "one of the first," to make a particular finding. 
To establish the significance of his contributions, the Petitioner relies on letters and on citations to his 
published work. The letters attest, in general terms, to the significance of the Petitioner's work, but they 
lack specific information about its impact on the field. For example, a professor at I I 
University states that the Petitioner's "confirmation of IL-24 as a clearly-defined, selective killer of 
I I cancer cells resulted in a s
1urae of 
1successful follow-up research and development in the area of 
IL-24 proteins and their effects on cancer cells." The letter includes no further details about the 
"follow-up research and development." 
The letters provide technical details about the Petitioner's research, but rely heavily on speculation about 
its potential Juture impa~t rather thr evidence of its known, existing impact. For instance, a professor 
atl Hospital in~--~states that the Petitioner "recognized that as IL-24 is used as a type 
of immunotherapy, perhaps IL-24 could be used in conjunction with chemotherapy agains~ !cancer 
to create better results .... [The Petitioner's] continued research can significantly improve the treatment 
o~ !cancer" (emphasis added). A professor atl I Hospital, where the Petitioner trained, offers 
the similar assertion that the Petitioner's findings "suggested that IL-24 has great potential in treating I !cancer" (emphasis added). 
The letters do not indicate that the Petitioner's discoveries have been widell impl1mented throughout the 
field, or, have significantly improved survival or recovery rates among cancer patients. The 
Petitioner contends that citations to his published work "show that [his] research ... [is] having a major 
impact on follow up studies that are paving the way to new anticancer gene therapies." The Petitioner 
identifies 65 articles that he published prior to the filing date, and submits printouts from Google Scholar, 
4 
the specialized search engine for scholarly publications, showing that 41 of those articles have been cited 
between 1 and 34 times each, for a total of 385 citations. Of the cited articles, 26 were cited fewer than 
ten times each. Over his total output, the average citation rate is about six citations per article. 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the citations of the Petitioner's work, but stated that the 
Petitioner had not shown that these citation figures are particularly high in comparison to those of other 
researchers in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight 
to these citations, but the Petitioner has not established that the citation rate shown in the record indicates 
major significance in the field. 
Instead, the Petitioner identifies five citing articles as examples of "other researchers treating [the 
Petitioner's] work as authoritative." The Petitioner does not explain how these selected articles establish 
the significance of the Petitioner's work. One of these examples is a 2015 article from the World Journal 
of Gastroenterolo , which cites 142 sources in its biblio ra h , and includes this assa e: I I 
26-29 ,, 
The source numbered 29 is a 2013 article co-authored by the Petitioner; sources 26-28 are articles by 
other researchers. It is not readily evident that inclusion in this collective citation indicates that the 
Petitioner's article, in particular, is of major significance. Citation does not inherently establish "a major 
impact on follow up studies," and the Petitioner does not provide a basis for comparison to show that his 
research is of major significance in relation to other published research in the field. 
Concerning the Petitioner's conference presentations, the Director stated that "there is no way to 
determine a conference paper or presentation's originality or influence in the field." On appeal, the 
Petitioner counters that "academic conferences exist for the very purpose of allowing researchers to 
present and discuss their novel and original work." We agree with the Petitioner that a conference 
presentation can include original work of major significance, but the burden is on the Petitioner to 
establish the significance of his contributions. The Petitioner's participation in such conferences is not, 
on its face, evidence of eligibility. 
The Petitioner contends that his "conference presentations ... tended to prove that the work was original 
and of major significance because, as a matter of course, invitations to conferences are given to 
researchers who have interesting and original findings to share." The Petitioner cites no source to support 
this claim, and even then, the term "interesting" does not necessarily imply major significance.1 
The Petitioner has documented original scientific contributions, but has not established their major 
significance in the field. 
1 When discussing the Petitioner's characterization of his claims and evidence, the plausibility and credibility of those 
claims are relevant. In this respect, we note that some of the Petitioner's claims are not only unsupported, but contradicted 
by the materials he submitted. Seeking to explain why he does not have a profile on Google Scholar, the Petitioner contends 
that Google Scholar "only collects English language articles. In non-English speaking countries, the works of top researchers 
do not find their way onto the platform because of the language barrier." But the record shows that the Petitioner has published 
several English-language articles, and the Google Scholar printouts he submitted include Chinese-language results. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to a request for evidence, 
the Petitioner claimed to have held several qualifying roles: 
I One of three deputy di rectors of th~ I Central Branch ofl I General Hospital; 
I Associate chief doctor and associate professor au I East Hospital; 
I Editorial board member of the Journal of .... C_li_n_ic_a_l S_u_r...,.g_erv ............ ; -------------, 
I Executive chairman and speaker at thel I land .___ _____________ ____. 
I Speaker at a World Medical Network forum. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish those roles to be leading or critical. On appeal, 
the Petitioner discusses only his hospital positions, and thereby waives the other listed claims. 
We need not reach the issue of the nature of the Petitioner's roles at the two hospitals unless the Petitioner 
also establishes that those institutions have distinguished reputation. Review of the record does not show 
that the Petitioner has met that requirement. The Petitioner submits no documentary evidence to provide 
an objective basis for comparison to show that the hospitals where the Petitioner has worked have 
distinguished reputations relative to other hospitals. 
The only evidentiary exhibits that the Petitioner cites with regard tol I East Hospital are a letter 
from that hospital's director of human resources and a translated printout from its website. Such 
materials, generated by the hospital itself, cannot directly establish how others perceive the institution, 
and a distinguished reputation is a product of outside perception rather than an organization's own self­
regard or promotional endeavors. 
In his response IOI the regur for evidence, the Petitioner offered no direct evidence that thel I 
Central Branch of General Hospital has a distinguished reputation. Instead, the Petitioner cited 
the size of its staff, and stated: "A distinguished university such as the School of Medicine ofl I 
r===]university would only affiliate with other renowned organizations and hospitals. Thus, 
c==]General Hospital's affiliation with the School of Medicine of~ ____ ____.University 
demonstrates the distinguished reputation of I I General Hospital." The Petitioner cited no 
evidence to support this conclusory assertion. It is not self-evident that university affiliation confers the 
university's reputation on the affiliated entit(c. Even then, the Petitioner's position relates to one of an 
unspecified number of branches o~~--~_General Hospital, rather than to that institution as a whole. 
Instead, the Petjtjoner relies or letters from two professors au I University, both written to support 
the petition.I !states th;:itl O IGeneral Hospital [is] a distinguished hospital with a 
high re[utation in China," "[k]nown for its research funds, published papers, and level of expertise of its 
staff." _ I provides few details in this regard, excep.......,.._..L..L.>41.L...L.W....Jr o "other hospital doctors [who] 
have won prestigious national awards." I I states: General Hospital is known for its 
strong technical knowledge and wel I-known experts.'.___ _ ____. provides statistics about research funding. 
Both professors list the hospital's collaborations with institutions outside China. The details provided do 
6 
not inherently establish a distinguished reputation, and the use of the word "distinguished" in the letters 
is not presumptive evidence of distinction. 
The Petitioner has not submitted documentary evidence of the organizations' distinguished reputations, 
and therefore we need not reach the separate issue of his roles there. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues (relating to 
continued work in the field and substantial prospective benefit to the United States) because discussion 
of those issues cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 2 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has depicted his various achievements as being consistent 
with the highest levels of accomplishment and influence in his field, but the evidence of record does 
not substantiate such a conclusion. Where he does satisfy specific evidentiary criteria, he does so 
through activities that are routine for his field (writing scholarly articles and performing peer review 
of articles by others) rather than accolades limited to, and indicative of, the highest levels in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). Nevertheless, 
we briefly note that, while the Petitioner asserts that he intends "to work as a medical researcher at a cancer research lab in 
California or Texas," he has not established that any research institution in either of those states has, even informally, expressed 
any interest in employing him, or that freelance research independent of such institutions is a viable or plausible avenue. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) calls for "detail[ed] plans," rather than a general assertion of intent. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11991701 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior exploration geologist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, the appeal will be dismissed. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a senior exploration geologist fo~._ __________ __. 
in Texas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of these criteria, related to authorship of scholarly 
articles. The record supports this determination as the Petitioner has provided evidence that he 
authored articles published in academic journals and other professional publications. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence submitted in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) which establishes that he meets all five claimed criteria. 
Upon review, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner meets two additional criteria. 
First, the Petitioner established that he has served in critical roles for~s operations in Ukraine and 
Oman and has therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner provided 
detailed, credible letters from persons with direct knowledge of his duties and project outcomes, 
explaining why his performance in senior technical roles was critical to the outcome of the 
organization's I !exploration and I I operations in these markets. The submitted 
2 
evidence also establishes the distinguished reputation of O and the related entities that employed 
the Petitioner. 
In addition, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he 
commands a high salary from his current U.S. employer in relation to others in the same occupation 
and geographic area and has therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Director 
determined that the Petitioner's stated annual salary was prospective since he had not yet been 
employed for a full year, despite his submission of bi-monthly pay statements froml I that 
corroborated his stated annual salary. The Director also did not acknowledge the Petitioner's 
submission of data from a Department of Labor source establishing that the Petitioner's salary exceeds 
the published "high salary" threshold for similarly employed workers in Texas.1 Accordingly, we will 
withdraw the Director's determinations that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he has 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements. We will consider the evidence submitted in support of all 
remaining criteria, together with the balance of the record, in the final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.2 
As noted, the Petitioner is currently employed as a senior exploration geolpgist forl J II in Texas. He received his doctorate in geological sciences froml .... __________ ____.r r===J University..,.._ ____ .,.........in Ukraine in 2007 and worked as a geoscience researcher at the 
Ukrainian Institute of while com letin his graduate studies. The Petitioner also served 
as a senior lecturer in geology at.__ _____ ____.University from 2007 until 2009 and worked for 
Ukraine's largest state-owned oil and gas company from 2008 to 2009. Prior to joining! I 
operations in March 2019, he had worked for related companies in the Oorganization in Ukraine 
and Oman since 2009. 
1 While we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he commands a high salary based 
on his current U.S.-based position, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
earned a high salary while employed in Ukraine and Oman. As noted by the Director, the record lacks comparative salary 
data for the Petitioner's occupation and geographic area of employment during the relevant time periods. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner established that he has authored scholarly articles, performed in a 
critical role, and earned a high salary, and submitted evidence related to his contributions to his field 
and one publication about him and relating to his work. The record, however, does not demonstrate 
that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The record reflects that a profile of the Petitioner and overview of his rofessional career appeared in 
a 2017 book commemorating th .__ ____________________ __. University ~----~ According to a letter from the publisher, the book focused on the university's history, 
its scientific and educational activities, and the achievements of its researchers, and included a section 
"devoted to the outstanding graduates" of the institution, where the article about the Petitioner, a 2007 
graduate, appeared. A letter from! r who does not appear to be affiliated with the 
university or the publisher, states that the Petitioner's selection for this publication is "an extraordinary 
recognition," and emphasizes that only 300 graduates from the last 50 years were selected for the 
book's "outstanding graduates" section. We acknowledge that it was a significant honor for the 
Petitioner to be selected as a featured graduate and indicative of his considerable success in his field. 
The evidence does not demonstrate, however, that all former students featured in this university 
publication had achieved sustained national or international acclaim, or that being featured in the book 
signifies that any individual graduate of this university has risen to the very top of the field. The record 
also does not establish that this book, which according to the publisher had a publication run of 1,000 
copies, can be considered a professional, major trade publication or other major medium, or that it had 
sufficient distribution to gamer the Petitioner significant national or international recognition. 
In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" forlesserclassifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
The Petitioner has not established that one published article about him reflects a level of media 
recognition that is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles, we emphasize that publication of 
research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 3 Here, the Petitioner provided a copy 
of his curriculum vitae (listing 21 "scholarly publications" dated between 2002 and 2008), copies of 
five of his publications, and a screenshot of Google Scholar search results for his name that returned 
five articles authored or co-authored by him. In his letter,__ ____ ~ __ _.the Petitioner's former 
mentor and a professor at the Universit~ lin France, refers to the Petitioner's patents and 
"more than twenty research articles," noting that he is "one of only a few geologists in Ukraine with 
such achievements in the field." However, the Petitioner did not submit additional supporting 
evidence differentiating his publication rate from those of others in his field, or otherwise establishing 
that it is reflective of one who is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating that he has received national or 
international acclaim on the basis of his publications. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent 
to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his 
articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field 
and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an 
article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and 
that other geoscientists have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
Here, the information provided from Google Scholar includes only five of the 21 articles identified on 
the Petitioner's curriculum vitae, and of those five, it indicates that only two have been cited by others. 
Specifically, the information provided by Google Scholar indicates that the Petitioner's 2007 doctoral 
thesis was cited in two other sources, while an article he published in 2005 has garnered one citation. 
The evidence from Google Scholar shows that the field has noticed his work, but the Petitioner has 
not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his research represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. For instance, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence that would allow us to compare citations to his authored works to the citation 
histories of others in his field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. 
In addition, he did not demonstrate how his publications have contributed to his sustained national or 
international acclaim as his most recent article was published in 2008, ten years prior to the filing of 
the petition. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's performance in critical roles for his employers, the record contains 
numerous letters of recommendation discussing his work for~s operations in Ukraine, its joint 
venture operation wit~ !Oman I, J and his latest role withl Is U.S. 
operations in Texas.4 These letters demonstrate the Petitioner's expertise in~ ________ _. 
operations in th~ I industry and his value to his employers, particularly in Ukraine and Oman 
where the Petitioner played a critical role in the development of new projects that resulted in significant 
financial investments and returns. However, the testimonial evidence discussing the Petitioner's roles 
withe=] identify how the company benefited from his service in a senior geoscientist role, rather 
than documenting the acclaim or recognition he has received in the field as a whole as a result of his 
work within the organization. 
For examplej I states that "some of [the Petitioner's] projects in Oman have been 
widely discussed in the industry, e.g., the well-known I I project that has turned to 
become the most profitableOdiscovery in Oman and where [the Petitioner] was responsible for 
appraisal and volume evaluation of the field." While I I notes that the Petitioner received a 
company award for his work on the project and the Petitioner has documented this award, the record 
does not elaborate on or corroborate his claim that thel I project, or the Petitioner's work on 
the project, has been "widely discussed" or that the Petitioner garnered national or international 
acclaim or recognition outside the company. I l who worked with the Petitioner on the I I project, discusses the geological challenges presented by the Oman I I the 
4 Although we discuss only a sampling of the reference letters, we have reviewed all of the letters in the record. 
5 
innovative tlchniquel the Petitioner used to locateO and the commercial value of the project to the 
company. states that the project and its results were a "notable achievement" that gained 
"much esteem from local and international sources." However, he does not explain the nature or scope 
of this international attention or elaborate as to whether the Petitioner hijself ga7ered any individual 
recognition from outside his employer based on his contributions to the project. 
Other letters describing the Petitioner's work with! lin Ukraine and in Texas are similar in that 
they are sufficient to establish his expertise as a geoscientist and the critical nature of his roles with 
the organization, but they lack any specific examples of how the field has recognized the Petitioner 
for his work.I I Exploration Manager with ______ Texas office, states that the 
Petitioner's "contributions to the team in his current assignment project, as well as in previous 
assignments, have been significant to the business and valuable to the team." While I I and 
otherD representatives comment on the unique skills that the Petitioner has brought to his specific 
projects and assignments with the company, and the Petitioner provided evidence that I I 
activities in Oman and Ukraine both garnered some media attention, the record does not establish how 
the field has widely recognized the Petitioner's contributions to thel !organization in a manner 
reflective of sustained acclaim. Without additional evidence demonstrating that his work foI'LJhas 
been widely recognized, the Petitioner has not shown that his achievements within the organization 
have received a level of acclaim reflective of one who is among "that small percentage who [has] risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition to establishing his critical roles, the Petitioner has established thatl ~urrently pays 
him a high salary in relation to others in the field. Specifically, the evidence from the Department of 
Labor-sponsored Career One Stop website shows that "high" salaries for geoscientists in Texas, based 
on statewide data, start at "$208,000+". Although the Petitioner's annual salary of $233,100 falls 
within this high range and may demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the 
field, he has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
Finally, as it relates to his original contributions, the Petitioner submits evidence related to his Ph.D. 
thesis and other published research, Ukrainian patents issued between 2002 and 2007 while he was a 
graduate student and geoscience researcher with the Ukrainian Institute I I and letters of 
recommendation intended to speak to the significance of his scientific contributions. While 
publications and patents indicate the original nature of his research, they are not necessarily indicative 
of the major significance of those contributions, nor are they sufficient to establish that his 
contributions have garnered him sustained national or international acclaim in the field . 
.__ _______ _,of the Ukrainian.__ _____ __, Institute, describes the Petitioner's thesis as 
"innovative and impactfol" and states that the Petitioner's studies "became one of the main sources of 
practical reference for anyone who is working toward the exploration .__ ___________ _, 
in Ukraine." He states that "other geologists in Ukraine consistently rely on [the Petitioner's] 
groundbreaking findings in furtherance of their own research and scientific work." Specifically, he 
indicates that there have been three "major citations" of the Petitioner's work in scholar! ublications 
related td I exploration and I I published during the last decade . .__ ____ ~=..........,, 
attention to a "notable citation" to the Petitioner's work in the 2013 mono ra h titled 
6 
------------~---------------.--~H=e"""n"""'otes that in this 245-page 
publication, the authors "summarized all successful approaches fo exploration" and "spent 
four pages on referencing [the Petitioner's] technique of measuring~-----~' I I 
emphasizes that the Petitioner's dissertation research was featured because it "set a new unique method 
or a benchmark enabling advancement and expansion o±i~---~~xploration in Ukraine." 
As noted, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles can also be 
an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether 
such influence has been sustained. However, it is not clear how three total citations to the Petitioner's 
published work, even if one or more of them can be deemed "notable," is indicative.of sustained 
national or international acclaim. Nor does the citation evidence as a whole support! Is claim 
that reliance on the Petitioner's published work is widespread among geoscientists in Ukraine or in 
the field at large. 
~-----~of.__ _______________ ____. notes that the Petitioner, in his 
dissertation, "developed a theoretical basis, mathematical models and practical applications of 
exploration and development ofl t' and states that his research 
"greatly enhanced our understanding of the geophysical data and facilitates the exploration I I 
c=]." He indicates that the Petitioner's knowledge and experience in explorationl,__.========..· 
and 0±1 I as "currently very useful both in Ukraine and USA."I I 
also describes the Petitioner "as an experienced scientist with interesting results of research and 
industrial applications that have been used on real projects in! I," but he does not 
indicate that their shared field recognizes the Petitioner as a nationally or internationally acclaimed 
figure who is among that small percentage at the very top. 
~------~deputy director of geology at the Ukrainian Institute I l specifically 
addresses the Petitioner's Ph.D. dissertation and some of the patents he co-authored during his tenure 
as a researcher. Specifically, he states that the Petitioner's "dissertation research of substantiation of 
prospects for discovering of,__ _____ ~ analysis of the thickness of overlying I l and 
a method that allows to determine a position of I I in relation to al ~ are original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field of geology because they represent a method of finding 
that are not otherwise detectable by conventional means that are employed 
~th_r_o_u_g_h_o_u_t-th-e-in_d_u_s-try~." I I also notes that the Petitioner was involved in Os early 
exploration activities in Ulaame and participated in two projects "which proved the first in the country 
usage of massive multistagd I." He states that "because of immense success of the 
projects where [the Petitioner] played a leading role and influence they had on the whole exploration 
industry, this approach isnow widely used b= rlkrainianJ !companies] on other fields, which 
make possible to increase! J significantly." While this evidence~s that the 
Petitioner's research and patented methods impacted! 
0 I exploration and L___Jin parts of 
Ukraine, the record does not establish how his contributions, or their practical application, resulted in 
his national or international acclaim. 
We do not question that the Petitioner has made original contributions to his field and that his 
contributions to some high-profile projects have been beneficial to his employers and have 
applicability within thd I industry. However, the issue is whether recognition of the 
Petitioner's contributions has risen to the level of sustained national or international acclaim that has 
7 
elevated the Petitioner to the very top of his field. The Petitioner has shown that his work surrounding 
exploration an~ I is important and has practical '------:-,,----,------,-------,--..,........,.~ application, but not that it hqs earned him sustained acclaim. 
The record contains a number of recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's achievements 
and offer high praise of his knowledge and expertise but do not address how he has received sustained 
national or international acclaim for those achievements. For example,! I states that the 
Petitioner's "extraordinary talent and extensive practical experience ... place him f monI the very few 
who have reached this sort of caliber and expertise." .__ ________ ~of tates that the 
Petitioner's "unique knowledge skills and technical experience ... demonstrate that he is far more 
important to the industry and business than most others" and that he is "one of the most experienced 
experts I have every worked with." A recommendation letter from.__ ___ ~ ___ ...., the 
Petitioner's former mentor, states that his "geological background, interdisciplinary expertise and 
teaching skills allow him to manage and deliver ro · ects and undertake scientific enquiries in a manner 
that places him in the top 5% of the field." states that the Petitioner "is a scientist of 
extraordinary ability in the field o '----~ exploration." 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters alone 
do not show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The letters are not accompanied by 
sufficient independent evidence that the Petitioner has received sustained national or international 
acclaim for his achievements and is widely regarded as having a career of acclaimed work. See H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The record reflects that the Petitioner is highly regarded by his colleagues, 
has enjoyed a very successful academic and professional career, and has worked on some high-profile 
.__ ___ ~I.projects for a distinguished employer in the field. While the Petitioner need not establish 
that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12797029 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer (CEO), seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
an individual in that small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on 
appeal.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 The Petitioner provided a short statement identifying the basis for his appeal on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or 
Motion, and indicated that a brief would be submitted to the AAO within 30 days of the appeal's filing date (June 11, 
2020). As of the date of this decision, the record reflects that we have not received the Petitioner's brief and the record 
will be considered complete . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the CEO and founder ofi I, a training center and business education provider 
that organizes business and self-improvement training events. The Petitioner indicates that 
.__ ___ __.!has three offices in Russia and an office in th , where it intends 
to market its .__ ____________________ __, 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet seven of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the claimed evidentiary criteria, relating to 
published material, judging and performing in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
2 
distinguished reputation, but determined that he had not met the remaining four claimed criteria. 
Because the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to a final 
merits determination. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the three referenced criteria. Specifically, Petitioner established that he and his work were the subject 
of an article published by Kommersant, that he judged several competitions in the field of business, 
and that he is the leader of a company with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "applied the wrong examination criteria to several 
of the qualifying criterion [sic] in dismissing several of the claims," but does not specify which of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) he is contesting. As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the remaining criteria in 
the context of the final merits determination farther below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.2 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his 
eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner established._! --........,=!..!I i;.!.!n.1..I ---------i:IRussia in 2010 and 
has served as its CEO since that time, currently based at it~I ] office. The record 
does not include the Petitioner's curriculum vitae or otherwise provide details regarding his earlier 
career but rather reflects that most of his documented achievements in business have resulted from his 
work over the last decade, particularly in the last several years. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has been featured in a major media publication, judged others 
within his field, and performed in a leading role. We have also considered evidence related to his 
claimed award and membership, his published work, and his business-related contributions. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to published materials in major media, the record reflects that Kommersant, a daily 
newspaper with national circulation in Russij, publi
0s1ed an interview with the Petitioner about his 
work withl I in its online edition in 2018. Overall, however, the evidence reflects 
that most media coverage of the Petitioner and his work to date has been in publications that are local 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
or regional in nature. For example, the Petitioner submitted a 2016 interview with him published by 
the website Uniform Republican Business Portal (www.erbp.ru), which is described as "a 
multifunctional Internet resource, designed to become an information and communication platform 
for business representatives of the Republic ofl l" 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner was selected by th edition of the magazine Sobaka 
~ h as one of the "Top 30 Most Famous Peo le in 2016. Specifically, the 
evidence shows that he was one of 30 individuals from~----~nominated for prizes in seven 
categories that included business, as well as sports, arts-related and lifestyle categories. While the 
record does not demonstrate that he won the prize in the business category, it does show that his photo 
and a brief profile appeared in the online magazine as a result of his nomination. However, the 
Petitioner does not establish that this recognition, while notable, evidences his receipt of a nationally 
recognized award as claimed, or that he garnered national acclaim and recognition based on his 
nomination and appearance in a magazine with a regional focus. 
In addition to these three publications, the Petitioner provided evidence that several classes and events 
in which he participated as a presenter or lecturer were announced online in the events section ofO 
Tod,Q.rlh,ttp:/Otoday/events) in 2016. Finally~rovided screenshots indicating that the website 
Th~oom included him on its list of the toIL-Jinstagram profiles from natives of the city. The 
Petitioner appears~on the list with over 18,000 subscribers. The article identifies him as the head 
ofl I and as an entrepreneur and coach, and provides a quote from him about the types of 
photographs he prefers to post on Instagram. The record does not establish that local event 
announcements or his inclusion on the list of Instagram users compiled by The D Room reflected or 
contributed to his national or international recognition in his field. 
In sum, the record does not establish that a single published article in a major medium is consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Even considering the totality of the other published materials, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with 
being among "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.3 The record reflects that the 
Petitioner has provided his services as 1 a panel jud e for the information technology competition 
held within the ~--~--~--~Contest" a'L_ ____ -r-___ __,_,.......,..........,..........,.............,~018; 
and (2) as an expert counc1 mem er at a preliminary regional stage.__ _________ __., for 
the I !Entrepreneurship Prize competition in 201 7. The Petitioner also 
provided evidence that he initiated and served as chairman of the jury for a "competition to identify 
the best organization among small businesses" which was held by the I I Regional Branch of 
"Opora Russia" in 2018. Finally, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was a co-organizer ( along 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the ve1y top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
with the of a "Power of Team" .__ ____ --,--------,....------~----------,J 
competition held in th-..._ ___ _. in 2018. The information provided regarding the "Power of Team" 
competition indicates that its jury would include "5 reputable expert persons -representatives of 
business, government, sports." The evidence does not indicate whether the Petitioner participated as 
a judge for this competition or that his role as co-organizer involved judging the work of others in his 
field. 
While the evidence confirms the Petitioner's service as a judge in three of these four business-related 
competitions, it does not sufficiently support his claim that he has often been invited to judge the work 
of others as a result of his national or international reputation in the field. Two of the competitions in 
which he was involved are new regional competitions in which he is identified as the contests' initiator 
or co-organizer; he was not invited to participate as a judge in these competitions based on his national 
acclaim. The willingness of regional entities to co-sponsor or co-organize these competitions with 
him is acknowledged and may be indicative of his reputation as a business expert in I I 
but does not support a finding that he enjor national acclaim in his field. In addition, although the 
record indicates that thd~ ______ ..,. Entrepreneurship Prize draws from a national pool of 
competitors, the Petitioner was invited to judge a preliminary stage of the competition at the regional 
level. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I CEO ofl 
which held the Open Innovations start-up contest in 2018. H~e_e_x_p-la-in-s-th_a_t_t_h_e~I ------
Forum and Technology Show is an annual forum which provides "a platform for discussion, 
interaction and exchange amongst experts in leading edge technologies, scientists, top managers from 
Russian and foreign corporations, startups and state authorities."! !states that he personally 
selected the Petitioner as a panel member for the forum's 2018 start-up competition because he 
"needed an experienced and respected businessman to judge the contest." He also indicates that I I "chose only the people who have truly proven themselves to have extraordinary ability ... 
to help us select the winning teams to join our acceleration program as judges of the startup 
competition." I I's letter supports a conclusion that thel I competition was 
likely the most prominent competition in which the Petitioner served as a judge. However, his 
statement is not sufficiently detailed to establish that invitations to serve on its judging panels were 
limited to those nationally or internationally acclaimed business professionals in the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. The record does not contain, for example, profiles of others who served 
with the Petitioner on the judging panel for the start-up competition. 
Finally, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner garnered sustained national or international 
recognition or acclaim as a result of his participation as a judge in these competitions, all of which 
occurred within the two years preceding the filing of the petition. The Petitioner has not shown, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others in his field or otherwise sets him apart from 
them. Without this evidence, he has not demonstrated that his service as a judge indicates that he is 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For similar reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his invitation to join the "speaker series" 
of the School of Business! I reflects that he enjoys sustained national or 
international acclaim. I I rector ofl I explains that the Petitioner's company, 
5 
.__ ___ ___.I "has been a trusted partner" to the school, which has, in tum "extended an invitation to 
[the Petitioner] to join our speaker series, an honor extended to the very few business and education 
professionals worldwide." I I notes that the organizing committee for the series has "very 
stringent criteria for selecting its featured speakers" and requires those selected to have "extraordinary 
abilities and achievements in their respective fields." He names several other individuals as members 
of the speaker series, noting that they are "highly regarded" and "legends" in their fields, but the record 
does not contain information about them. Further, althoug~ I states that the Petitioner 
accepted! 7s invitation to join its speaker series, the record does not identify or include evidence 
of an~~--~fevents in which the Petitioner participated as a speaker or the nature and scope of his 
involvement. Nor does the record contain additional background regarding! I or its speaker 
series in general, such that we could evaluate the level of national or international recognition that may 
be associated with participation in the series. The Petitioner's andl Is association with 
I land its speaker series supports a determination that he is recognized within some segments 
of the Russian business community, but there is insufficient evidence to establish how his participation 
in the series places him among that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's publications, which include a book4 titled I I and four articles in the Russian online edition of Forbes magazine published between I 12018 andl [ 2019. The record reflects that the Petitioner has also authored articles published 
on the Russian websites Vc.ru, RusBase (www.rb.ru), Invest-Foresight (www.if24.ru) and Standards 
and Quality (www.ria-stk.ru). The Director determined that the articles authored by the Petitioner did 
not qualify as scholarly articles under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and did not address 
this evidence in his final merits determination. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's authorship of articles, we emphasize that publication of one's written 
work does not automatically place an individual at the top of the field.5 We acknowledge that Forbes 
is a major medium, but the record does does not establish to what extent the Petitioner's four recent 
articles garnered him sustained national or international acclaim or that the publication of his work in 
Forbes reflects such acclaim. The Petitioner is credited in the articles' bylines as a "Forbes 
contributor," but the record does not contain any information or documentation about the magazine's 
standards, policies or procedures for accepting articles from contributors. We cannot determine, for 
example, that Forbes or the other referenced publications only accept articles from contributors who 
are nationally recognized figures in a given field. The record also lacks evidence that the Petitioner's 
articles have been cited or discussed by others in the field, or that they have generated a level of interest 
in the Petitioner and his work commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also states that he became a "best-selling author" based on his publication of the book 
I I In support of this claim, he provides evidence that the book is available for purchase 
on the websites of three Russian booksellers. Some of the recommendation letters and expert opinion 
letters, including a letter from.__ _____ ___, of.__ _________ _. also refer to the 
"enormous success" of the Petitioner's book. However, the record does not contain any independent 
evidence, such as information about the number of books published or sold, evidence of the book's 
4 Other evidence in the record refers to the English translation of the book's title aJ land~I ____ ___. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 
critical success, or other information to establish that the Petitioner's work as an author has received 
acclaim at the national or international level. Some of the submitted recommendation letters refer to 
the Petitioner's written work as "informative" and emphasize that it is significant that his views on 
technology, management and start-up enterprises are deemed "worthy of dissemination" in business­
related publications, but this does not equate to a finding that his publications have earned him a place 
among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. 
Overall, the Petitioner did not establish that his publication of a book and magazine articles in the few 
years preceding the filing of the petition sets him apart through a "career of acclaimed work." The 
statute requires the Petitioner to submit "extensive documentation" of his sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, as noted, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the articles or his book have been cited or generated widespread discussion in the field, 
nor did it otherwise demonstrate a level of interest in his work commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Lastly, as it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading role withl I and the business 
contributions he has made as the company's leader, the record contains numerous letters of 
recommendation and expert opinion letters. 6 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director's 
decision "ignored the overwhelming body of expert opinion evidence" previously submitted. 
With respect to the Petitioner's business-related contributions, the Director's decision reflects that he 
considered the submitted letters of recommendation. He specifically referenced letters fromD I I an~ !which discuss a horizontal management structure that the 
Petitioner developed or adapted, as well as I I a customer relationship management system 
designed for businesses that employ a horizontal management structure. 
With respect to the horizontal management structure, some of the submitted letters identify the 
Petitioner as the originator of this business model, while others state that he adapted this structure after 
studying successful American companies (such as Goof e, Facebook and Netflix) that were built on 
horizontal management. For example, the letter from I states that the Petitioner is "a 
pioneer of an innovative business management -he designed and formulated a tum-key horizontal 
business management structure based on the model he successfully developed atl I" In 
contrastJ I refers to the Petitioner as a "student and early adaptor of horizontal business 
management structure" but not as the creator or developer of this business model. 
Similarly J I a business coach who has partnered withl I explains that the 
Petitioner studied other successful organizations that use a horizontal management structure, based his 
company on this model and became "its most outspoken advocate and promoter in Russia." ~ I I states that the Petitioner's promotion of this type of non-traditional structure has "resonated 
throughout the Russian Federation," and notes that the Petitioner has taught seminars and led training 
sessions "to promote this revolutionary model" in over 40 cities. Collectively, the letters suggest that 
the Petitioner was among the first to promote a horizontal management structure as an alternative to 
the vertical, top-down management structure that is prevalent in Russia, but not that he is credited as 
6 Although we discuss only a sampling of this correspondence, we have reviewed all of the letters in the record. 
7 
the originator of this structure. Further, the fact that he promotes this management structure through 
his company and speaking engagements does not establish that his efforts have already significantly 
impacted the field to the extent that he has achieved national or international acclaim as a result of his 
business-related contributions. The supporting evidence does not corroborate, for example, how the 
Petitioner's business model has "resonated throughout the Russian Federation ." 
With respect tol Isl I product.I I credits the Petitioner with formulating 
designing it and delivering it to market, and notes that the product "has been very well received and 
adopted by some of the most innovative company's [sic] in our country."I I notes the 
"incredible success" of the product, and several of the other recommendation letters repeat similar 
language about the success of the product and its adoption by Russian companies. The record does not 
include independent evidence of the product's performance, its implementation by prominent 
companies, its recognition in the field, or the individual recognition that the Petitioner has received as 
a result of the product's success in Russia or elsewhere . 
Finally, we have considered an expert opinion letter froml , la professor a~._ _____ _. 
University, who states that he has reviewed the evidence submitted in support of this petition, 
including letters from six professional peers, 7 press related to the Petitioner and his business ventures, 
articles that he has authored, his judging activities, his leadership role with and his 
business-related contributions, and his recognition as "one of the 30 most famous citizen ___ _ 
Without referencing the statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to this classification, be 
concludes that the Petitioner "bas achieved a national and international reputation for outstanding 
achievements in business." This conclusion appears to be based on the Petitioner's submission of 
evidence that satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, but does not included an analysis 
of how that evidence, when considered individually and collectively, supports a conclusion that the 
Petitioner is among that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 
l&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. Furthermore, merely repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
As acknowledged by the Director, the record supports a determination that the Petitioner and I lhave garnered some recognition in the field over the last several years, as evidenced by 
the media coverage discussed above, his invitations to serve as a judge in business competitions and 
to participate in speaking engagements, and the publication of his book and business articles. 
However, the record does not support his claims that bis work has made an impact in the overall field 
of business in Russia, or that he bas achieved sustained national or international acclaim based on bis 
achievements. While the evidence, all of which dates from the last few years, shows that the Petitioner 
is increasingly being recognized for his work in the Russian business community, particularly in the 
7 These include the letters o~~----1 ~I ___ __.l1l'---___ .....1l and three other letters which we have considered 
but did not specifically discuss above. 
8 
~---------_.the totality of the evidence does not establish that he is already among that 
small percentage at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12823340 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least three. 
The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that he would continue work in his area 
of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal based on a determination that 
he did establish that he meets at least three initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, the Petitioner has not met this burden and we 
will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has presented new facts to warrant reopening his appeal 
and/or established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was based on an incorrect application of law 
or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
In dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we acknowledged his claim that he had submitted evidence 
relating to eight of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We evaluated the evidence 
submitted in support of six of these criteria, including: lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards; membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; published materials in 
major media; judging the work of others; original business contributions of major significance; and 
display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v) and (vii). Based 
on our de novo review, we reached the same conclusion as the Director and determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he meets any of the six criteria discussed. 
Although the Petitioner also claimed to meet the criteria related to leading and critical roles and high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix), we reserved 
those criteria and did address them in our decision. The regulations require the Petitioner to establish 
that he meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) in order to meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. Even if we had determined that the Petitioner met the 
2 
remaining claimed criteria, our decision to dismiss the appeal would have been unchanged, as he could 
not satisfy the initial evidence requirements by meeting only two criteria. For the same reason, we did 
not reach the issue of whether the Petitioner established that he would continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability in the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 
U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we misapplied law and USCIS policy to the facts presented, 
failed to give sufficient weight to reference letters and other relevant evidence submitted in support of 
the petition, and imposed novel substantive evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth in the 
regulations in evaluating the Petitioner's claims made under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
address his specific claims below.1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
On appeal, the Petitioner argued that he met this criterion based upon: (1) an award received by 
'-----~~-------~---.....,. a logistics company owned by the Petitioner), and (2) 
a claimed award received by the .__ ____ ---r-----,.-----' during his tenure as its managing 
director. With respect to the award granted to the Petitioner rovided evidence that his 
company received a recognition award la ue fro for "the success 
and import',!,,W~~.u.u......l.L.L....J.U~L...~-~-~----------'" The evidence also included a 2019 
letter from .__ ____ ---r~~---,t--1 confirming that the Petitioner acted in a "key role" as "Contract 
and Project Manager" for.__ _ ____. on the project. I I notes that the Petitioner's contribution 
of "delivery of the equipment on time, on budget and without incidents ... has been endorsed by a 
recognition award." 
In determinrg thal the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion based onl i's 
award from we noted that, according to the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the petitioner is the actual recipient of the awards or 
prizes. 2 We determined that the Petitioner was not the recipient of the award, and thstl ~ s 
letter, written four years after the award was issued, did not indicate the awarding entity's intent to 
recognize the Petitioner individually for his work. We also determined that the Petitioner did not 
1 On motion, the Petitioner does not contest our determination that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which relates to participating as a judge of the work ofothers in the same filed and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), which relates to the display of an individual's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Therefore, we 
deem these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); see also See Sepulveda 
v. US. Att ): Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (I Ith Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at 
*I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that for this criterion, the focus should be on an 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes)." 
3 
provide sufficient evidence to establish that the recognition plaquel I received from CJ for 
its successful performance on the referenced project is a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner's arguments are limited to our determination that he did not establish that 
he was the recipient of the recognition award given tol lbyc=] In this regard, the Petitioner 
asserts that we mischaracterized the content of I Is letter, inappropriately faulted the 
Petitioner for not providing a letter from~issued at the time of the award, and failed to consider 
industry and cultural norms. 3 The Petitioner maintains tha~ Is letter indicatesc=J s intent 
to recognize him for his individual work, and that the regulations do not require that an individual's 
name appear on a physical award or a contemporaneous letter declaring the awarding entity's intent. 
However, even ifwe determined based on these arguments that the Petitioner should be recognized as 
the recipient of the award froml I the motion does not address how we misapplied the law or 
USCIS policy in determining that the evidence did not establish that the recognition plaque fromc=J 
is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In reaching this determination, we acknowledged evidence 
demonstrating thatl ~as the secontlarge
1stl !company according to a list 
published by Forbes in 2017. However, the fact that is an internationally recognized company 
does not lead to a conclusion that a project-specific recognition plaque from one of its subsidiaries is 
a nationally or internationally award or prize for excellence in the industry. Again, the Petitioner has 
not addressed this separate determination on motion and therefore has not shown that the award from I meets all elements of this criterion. 
We made similar determinations with respect to the claimed c==J, award received byc=J in 
2008. The Petitioner submitted evidence that, during his tenu~ managing director, the0 
received a "good" rating based on "[a] survey with 200 executives from user companies com2leted in 
January b~ the Center for Studies in Logistics (CEL), linked to the postgraduate nucleus of thel I I I" We acknowledged a letter froml I management 
indicating that the Petitioner was instrumental to thee=) s receipt of this recognition, but observed 
that the Petitioner was not the recipient of the recognition. We also determined that the evidence did 
not establish that this recognition is a "nationally or internationally recognized prize or award." We 
noted that although the CEL survey ratedc=] on a national basis, the evidence did not establish that 
a favorable rating from this survey is recognized as a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence. On motion, the Petitioner states that "[i]t can be understood that the I ~ for 
an entire region in Brazil and being voted I I across all theD in Brazil is worthy of national 
importance." 
As noted, the fact that the results from the CEL survey were based on data collected for 18 c=J 
throughout Brazil does not establish that the "good" rating received byl I was a nationally 
recognized "prize or award" for excellence. There is no evidence that any prize or award was given 
to those ports that received a "good" rating or a certain ranking. Nor does the evidence establish that 
3 The Petitioner asserts that it is "widely accepted within thel I industry both in the U.S. and abroad to issue an 
award in name of the corporation but in recognition of one specific individual's work, primarily, the individual whom 
owns the corporation at the time the award is issued .... " 
4 
the survey resulted inc=J being named 1 I: the article in which the results of the survey were 
published indicated that it ranked fourth out of 18 Brazilian! I with the top three receiving 
"excellent" ratings. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner has not established that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that he did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserted eligibility for this criterion based on his membership on thel I 
L...----r-----,1------r--~a_n_d_b_a_s_e_d_o_n_h_is_ro_l_e--,wit~ I described as the leasing crmpanyl 
for in the Brazil. We acknowledged a letter from 
director of the ~--r--------:,-', who stated that I I "require[ s] '------------' excellence of our members," noted that the Petitioner is an entrepreneur of "outstanding 
achievements" in theO market, and summarized some of the Petitioner's accomplishments. The 
Petitioner argued on appeal that this letter "demonstrates that not just any professional within the 
industry may satisfy the standards for the Council's membership." 
With respect td I he submitted a letter from its presidentL-.r------~u..u.L.J.J..!..i..u..i...u~ 
Petitioner "became director ofl I on his own merit referred b1,__ ________ p===L.!;!.:::..::; 
to his performance" She notes tha _________ =-____,,....referred [the Petitioner] to._____,. _ ___., 
"with knowledge that we indeed require outstanding achievement of our team" and indicates that 
~~ accepted him "on the basis that his contributions are of excellence." 
We determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because the statements of~I ____ __. 
I I and I I did not provide detailed information to establish either organization's 
membership requirements, nor were they accompanied by any corroborating documentation, such as 
the bylaws ofl lorl I Further, we emphasized that the submitted letters did not address 
all elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) as they do not indicate whether membership 
in either organization requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their fields. 
On motion, the Petitioner objects to our suggestion that corroborating evidence such as the bylaws of 
I I oJ I should have been provided in addition to the referenced letters, noting that such 
evidence is not mentioned in the regulation and cannot be imposed as an additional requirement. It is 
the Petitioner's burden to establish that he meets each element of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Our decision reflects that we did not impose a requirement that the Petitioner submit 
bylaws for these organizations. Rather, we noted the need for corroborating evidence of the 
membership requirements because the letters from representatives of these organizations lacked 
detailed information regarding these requirements and the manner in which membership is granted. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was afforded the opportunity to submit bylaws or any other type 
ofrelevant evidence in response to a request for evidence prior to the petition's denial. The Board of 
Immigration Appeals (the Board) has stated: "We not only encourage but require the introduction of 
5 
corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id.; see also, Matter of Y-B-, 
21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998) (noting that there is a greater need for corroborative evidence when the 
testimony lacks specificity, detail, or credibility). 
Further, as noted, the letters from~------~ and! I did not address the separate 
requirement that the Petitioner establish that recognized national or international experts are charged 
with judging whether a prospective member satisfies the organization's membership requirements. 
Accordingly, even if we found the letters alone sufficient to establish that one or both of these 
organizations requires outstanding achievements as a necessary condition of membership, we could 
not conclude that the criterion had been met. For these reasons, the Petitioner not established that we 
misapplied the law or USCIS policy in concluding that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In evaluating this criterion, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of more than 20 
articles published in six Brazilian newspapers. We identified several reasons for reaching a conclusion 
that the evidence did not satisfy all requirements of this criterion. We noted that five of the articles do 
not mention the Petitioner by name, while the remaining articles identify him but are about thel I I Is business activities and not about him. Further, we determined that 13 of the articles that 
did mention the Petitioner did not include the author or date of the material as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). Finally, we determined that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that 
any of the articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In 
this regard, we noted that he provided supporting documentation regarding only one of the six 
newspapers (Gazeta Mercantil) but did not include circulation figures for the publication to establish 
its major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 4 
On motion, the Petitioner refers to an unpublished decision in which we determined that the self­
petitioner (also an entrepreneur seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability) met 
this criterion based on "a certified translation of an article published in the Hungarian edition of 
[redacted] reflecting published material about him in a major medium." The Petitioner emphasizes 
that in the referenced decision, "the AAO did not consider or require any additional supporting 
evidence, other than the article itself, to determine that the entrepreneur met his burden on this issue." 
He contends that his evidence is sufficient under this same analysis, "as evidence was submitted 
detailing 25 major media publications discussing [the Petitioner] and corroborative evidence was 
submitted detailing how they qualified as major media." In response to our determination that none 
of the submitted articles were about the Petitioner, he refers to another unpublished decision, stating 
that we determined in that matter that "published material may still fulfill this criterion even if it does 
not discuss the content of a person's work, but rather some resulting award or grant received because 
of the work." 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
6 
These two decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Further, the facts here can be 
distinguished. As discussed above, the Petitioner did not, as he now claims, provide corroborative 
evidence to establish that the newspaper articles he submitted under this criterion were published in either 
major media or in other qualifying publications ( either professional or major trade publications). Although 
he implies that we overlooked or disregarded such evidence, he provides no specific reference to 
documentation that we failed to consider in our evaluation of this criterion. The articles submitted here 
were from various Brazilian newspapers and none of them could be readily characterized as qualifying 
publications without evidence regarding their relative circulation statistics and information regarding the 
intended audience. Therefore, even if we determined that one or more of the articles that briefly mentions 
the Petitioner could be considered published material "about" him, it remains that the evidence does not 
establish that any of the articles were published in professional, major trade publications or other major 
media. 
In addition, the Petitioner's motion does not address other deficiencies discussed in our decision, such as 
the fact that 18 of the submitted articles either contained no reference at all to the Petitioner or lacked 
other information required by the plain language of the regulation, specifically the date and author of the 
published material. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy 
in concluding that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner claimed that recommendation letters submitted from his colleagues reflect his business­
related contributions in his field. Specifically, he claimed that the evidence was sufficient to establish 
that his contributions included bringing major~--------~companies (and revenue from 
thel I sector) to Brazil and creating employment opportunities for "thousands of Brazilian 
Citizens." 
We evaluated all referenced letters and discussed several of them in our decision, acknowledging that 
the letters praised the Petitioner's entrepreneurial work with his companies, mentioned that he 
contributed to a project at! 0 lthat generated 800 jobs at the port, and recognized 
him as "a pioneer in business and maritime trade in Brazil." However, we determined that the letters 
did not establish how his activities were original contributions that remarkably impacted or were 
remarkably influential in his field as a whole, or how his work is viewed by the field, beyond the scope 
of his own companies and business contacts. 
We also emphasized in our decision that demonstrating ability as a skilled entrepreneur is not, in an 
of itself a contribution of major significance. We determined that the evidence did not demonstrate 
the widespread implementation of his work or otherwise establish that he has made an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
7 
The Petitioner's brief in support of the motion to reconsider does not clearly address our specific 
reasons for determining that he did not meet this criterion or point to any particular evidence submitted 
in support of the criterion that we overlooked. The Petitioner does, however, generally discuss the 
letters submitted in support of the petition, noting that they are "nuanced, coherent, sufficiently crafted 
and provide legitimate insight into [his] extraordinary abilities making it more likely than not that he 
is small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." He 
maintains that "it can be readily ascertained from the insight provided in the letters submitted that [his] 
contributions and abilities rise to the level not readily ascertainable by others within his industry." 
Finally, he argues that "any farther explanation of his contributions would result in an overly 
burdensome level of writing and specificity that is not required by law, thereby making it an entirely 
novel evidentiary standard." 
For purposes of establishing that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the 
evidence must establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. The 
Petitioner argues that the letters establish his extraordinary ability, but an evaluation of whether he has 
established his extraordinary ability is a separate determination that is only addressed if a petitioner 
satisfies the initial evidence requirements by meeting three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner's assertion that it would be overly burdensome to provide any additional information 
regarding his contributions does not sufficiently explain how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy 
in evaluating this criterion. In fact, we specifically cited to USCIS policy which provides that letters 
have more probative value when they "specifically articulate how the [petitioner's] contributions are 
of major significance to the field" and discuss their "impact on subsequent work."5 We did not 
disregard the letters submitted in support of the petition; we determined that they lacked the type of 
information needed to reach a favorable determination with respect to this specific criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that we made an incorrect determination with respect 
to this criterion. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we conclude Petitioner has either not addressed or not submitted 
legal arguments to overcome our conclusions with respect to any of the six criteria that we addressed 
in our appellate decision. As noted, we did not reach the merits of the Petitioner's arguments on appeal 
with respect to the two remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) because 
doing so could not change the outcome of the decision. Even if we determined that he submitted 
evidence to establish that he meets those two criteria, he could not succeed on a claim that he satisfied 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification, which requires him to show that he meets three 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner addresses the merits of the evidence submitted in support of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) at some length in his brief in support of this combined 
motion. With respect to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), he maintains that our 
decision not to discuss this criterion in our decision supports his argument that "due process was not 
given" to him in this matter. However, he does establish how we misapplied the law or policy by 
declining to address two criteria that were not relevant to the outcome of our decision. As we 
explained above, federal agencies, like courts are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 8-9. 
8 
unnecessary to the results they reach. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976). The 
Petitioner has not established how we erred by reserving these issues. Nor has the Petitioner 
demonstrated any resultant prejudice such as would constitute a due process violation. See, e.g., Vides­
Vides v. INS, 783 F.2d 1463, 1469-70 (9th Cir. 1986); Nicholas v. INS, 590 F.2d 802, 809-10 (9th Cir. 
1979); Martin-Mendoza v. INS, 499 F.2d 918,922 (9th Cir. 1974), cert. denied, 419 U.S. 1113 (1975). 
Had the Petitioner overcome our previous determination with respect to one or more of the other six 
claimed criteria with this motion, we would address the merits of the Petitioner's claims regarding the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). However, as he has not done so, we will not address 
those issues here. 
For the reasons discussed above, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
In support of his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits three new exhibits: (1) a newly preoared 
expert opinion letter froml I an associate dean at the University! 0.... I 
(2) a "proper translation" of the above-referenced award issued byl I tol I and (3) a 
personnel chart detailing the Petitioner's position atl I and intended to support his claim that 
he satisfies the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In his brief, the Petitioner states that the supplemental expert opinion from I _____ _ 
"corroborates the claims alleged by those pieces of testimonial comparable evidence submitted in 
support of [his] petition and support[s] those facts which are the basis of these motions and specifically 
indicate why [he] is an alien of extraordinary ability." I Is opinion letter provides a 
detailed discussion of the Petitioner's business experience, qualifications and achievements. He 
concludes that the Petitioner "has extraordinary ability in the entrepreneurship field and has satisfied 
at least five of the criteria of the USCIS for classification as an Alien of Extraordinary Ability." 
We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion statements from universities, professional 
organizations , or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 
l&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, where an opinion is not in accord with other 
information or is in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to 
that evidence. Id. Here, although thel I states that the Petitioner meets five of the 
evidentiary criteria for this classification, he does not cite to the regulatory criteria or explain how the 
Petitioner meets each element of these criteria. For example, he opines that the Petitioner has received 
"several internatiolally rrognized awards" but does not specify which evidence supports his 
conclusion that the rating thatc=J received from the CEL survey or the recognition plaque I I received fro:t=J I qualify as "internationally recognized" awards. As already 
discussed, the fact that is an internationally recognized company does not lead to a conclusion 
that any project-related recognition a I I company gives to a business collaborator is an 
internationally recognized award within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). His conclusion that 
the Petitioner satisfies the membership criterion is similarly lacking in detail as to how the Petitioner's 
memberships satisfied all elements of the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and does 
not overcome the conclusions we reached when we applied that regulation to the facts presented. 
9 
Further, we are ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign 
national's eligibility. The submission ofletters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive 
evidence of eligibility. Id. I Is letter does not provide new facts that would overcome our 
determination with respect to the four criteria discussed above. 
The remaining new evidence submitted on motion includes a newly prepared translation of the award 
given tol lbyl I While this evidence addresses a deficiency noted in our discussion of the 
awards criterion in our appellate decision, our determination did not rest on the insufficiency of the 
previously submitted translation. Finally, the new evidence pertaining to the Petitioner's role in 
I Is organizational hierarchy does not address any of the six criteria which we discussed in our 
appellate decision and therefore does not overcome our reasons for dismissal of the appeal. 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner requests that the motion to reopen "be accepted on the 
basis of ineffective assistance of counsel." Specifically, counsel states in his brief that prior counsel 
has been "unable and unwilling" to provide the Petitioner with the brief and/or documentation he 
submitted in support of the appeal and speculates that prior counsel may have neglected to file a brief. 
There is no further reference to the ineffective assistance claim in the brief on motion. 
Although the Petitioner's new counsel speculates that prior counsel may have failed to submit a brief 
in support of the appeal, the record reflects that prior counsel did in fact provide a timely brief that we 
considered in rendering our appellate decision. The Petitioner does not otherwise explain why the 
matter should be reopened based on ineffective assistance of prior counsel. 
For the reasons discussed, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration and has not overcome the 
grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed 
for these reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12796266 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a manufacturer ofrail transportation systems, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a project 
commercial manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as a project commercial manager with responsibility 
for commercial and contractual aspects of it integration projects for the I landl I railroads inl I The Beneficiary has a bachelor's degree in civil 
engineering and a master's degree in infrastructure -transportation from University I I as 
well as a master's degree in management from University I I Prior to joining the Petitioner in 
2018, the Beneficiary was employed byl I from 2011 to 2017 and with I I from 2001 until 2011. His curriculum vitae reflects that he has 
international experience with public private partnership (P3) and infrastructure projects, particularly 
in the transportation sector, and has provided advisory and consultancy services to his employers' 
clients in several other industries. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary 
could meet four of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets any of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets the criteria 
related to judging, original contributions, and critical roles, and contends that the Director either 
2 
disregarded probative evidence or misapplied the law as it relates to these criteria. The Petitioner has 
not contested the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary did not satisfy the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 
4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary did not meet this criterion, explaining that "in an 
occupation where judging the work of others is an inherent duty of the occupation, simply performing 
one's job-related duties demonstrates competency, but is not evidence that one's 'achievements have 
been recognized in the field of expertise."' For this reason, the Director concluded that the evidence 
related to the Beneficiary's work-related judging activities "has no probative value for this criterion." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director misapplied the law when evaluating this criterion. 
We agree, as the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) does not require a showing that the 
Beneficiary's judging activities demonstrate recognition for his achievements in the field. Such an 
analysis would be appropriate in a final merits determination to determine whether or to what extent 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion establishes the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
We also emphasize that the fact that a management consultant may be required to judge the work of 
others as an inherent job function does not prohibit persons in this occupation from meeting this 
criterion. USCIS guidance on evaluating this criterion indicates that routine activities performed by 
professors as part of their occupation ( such as peer review of manuscripts for scholarly journals and 
serving on Ph.D. dissertation committees) may be qualifying.1 However, regardless of the field, the 
judging activities must be clearly described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence 
should demonstrate with specificity whose work and what type of work the individual judged. 
Upon de nova review, we find insufficient evidence to establish that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. The Petitioner relies on testimonial evidence, including a letter from! I 
'------,-------,,------------ who states: 
[The Beneficiary] ... conducted an ambitious review of the I I Finance and 
Transport ministries' processes and policies for developing, procuring and delivering 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
road, rail and port transport projects inl I This work involved comparing the ~--~I government's construction projects, policies and procedures against that of 
many other countries . . .. This complex study required [the Beneficiary] to use his 
detailed understanding of many of the world's most complex transport and infrastructure 
organizations to determine what policies contribute positively to a successful project 
development and delivery process. As such [he] summarized key lessons and practices 
that could be implemented to resolve the challenges the I I government was 
encountering in its own market. 
The record does not contain additional evidence regarding the study referenced in this letter, and 
notably, the letter does not identify with specificity what work or whose work the Beneficiary judged. 
We cannot determine that "benchmarking," "review," or summarizing the results of a comparative 
study equate to 'judging," particularly where the record does not identify whose work was reviewed 
or provide sufficient detail to adequately document the nature of the Beneficiary's activities. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the I I Transport Ministry deferred to the Beneficiary s 
guidance "on how it developed, procured and delivered every new road, railway or port inl _ ," 
noting that "[every] government-led transportation project inl I in its totality is a much larger 
body of work to judge than most infrastructure projects that require consultants, so any consultant 
capable of judging it must be definition exceed the norm in the field by as wide of a margin." However, I l's letter does not adequately support the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary has 
effectively judged "every government-led transportation project inl I" 
For similar reasons, we find a letter from of insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. ~---------'.....:>..L.<.1.1.lo..~....,at he supervised the 
Beneficiary on several projects when they both worked at ~----~--~ The Petitioner relies 
on the following passage from his letter in support of its claim that the Beneficiary has performed 
qualifying activities as a judge: 
[The Beneficia and I also had the o ortunity to conduct a risk assessment of the 
proposed ro · ect. ThiJ I was proposed 
by the ........,_..------------.------ and failed to progress through the 
design and feasibility stages to the bid phase. [The Beneficiary] supported me and a 
small team of consultants in a review of the project's technical and commercial 
challenges. Using criteria that had been developed from other project work he helped 
develop explanations as to why this~project ... was unlikely to progress. As part 
of his professional development this particular project helped show the importance of 
careful preparatory work at the earliest stages of development. 
~--~-~Is assertion that the Beneficiary supported his supervisor and a team of consultants "in 
a review of ... technical and commercial challenges" related to this project is insufficient to establish 
eligibility for this criterion. In a supporting letter, the Petitioner asserts thatl ts letter 
demonstrates that the Beneficiary has been responsible for "judging non-colleagues' infrastructure 
management work, like his evaluations ofthel ~-" However, the 
nature and source of any "infrastructure management work" reviewed by the Beneficiary remains 
largely unidentified in the record, and we note that I ts letter does not make any reference 
4 
tol The Beneficiary's curriculum vitae lists the~------------~ among 
the high-speed rail projects he worked on, but it provides no additional information about his activities 
related to this project, nor does it mentio~ I 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this criterion. Although we have considered the testimonial evidence, the record lacks 
specificity and corroborating evidence of the Beneficiary's role in the projects mentioned above and 
is insufficient to establish that his activities involved judging the work of others as contemplated by 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the individuals original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends that the recommendation letters submitted from the Beneficiary's colleagues 
reflect his business-related contributions in the field. 2 In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must 
establish that not only has the beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director concluded that the letters froml l I I and others illustrate 
that the Beneficiary "is a capable project commercial manager" but do not establish that his 
contributions to various projects are "both original and of major significance in the overall field." On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored reliable, relevant and probative evidence and 
incorrectly relied on Matter o_f Caron Int'! Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) "to justify 
ignoring all letters." The Petitioner farther emphasizes that expert letters that specifically articulate 
how the Beneficiary's contributions are of major significance in the field and their impact on 
subsequent work "may form the basis for meeting this criterion." 
Specifically, the Petitioner relies on the letters of I II I and._l ___ _, 
.__ _____ _,I, CEO o ~--------~to establish that the Beneficiary meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In his letterJ lstates that the Beneficiary "was a key contributor on numerous rail 
infrastructure projects" during his tenure with0 including "noteworthy advisory projects withc=J 
in thel l" He briefly describes one project in which the Beneficiary "conducted 
workshops with public organizations, interacted with rail contractors and corporates, and ran focus 
groups for a supply chain market study for g" I I also states that he "worked on 
anothe0 project that looked to comparethL 1 ~ organization to and benchmark its 
processes for infrastructure procurement and spending programs against other railroad organizations." 
He notes that the Beneficiary interacted closely with French, Spanish and Italian national railways to 
determine how these countries modernized their national rail infrastructures and to determine "what 
lessons can be learnt to improve the c:J organization's own internal processes." WhileD 
2 Although we discuss the three letters that the Petitioner emphasized in response to the Director's request for evidence 
and on appeal, we have considered all testimonial evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
5 
~----~!confirms the Beneficiary's contributions as a consultant assigned bQ to th~~-~ 
project, he does not explain his role in detail, explain how his contributions were novel or original, or 
describe the remarkable influence or impact that his contributions to this project have had in the field 
of P3 infrastructure management. In fact, he does not describe with specificity how the Beneficiary's 
efforts advanced this particular project. 
On appeal, the Petitioner explains that~is the first entirely domestic high-speed rail line inl._ __ _. 
history with an estimated cost that makes it one of the country's largest P3 infrastructure projects.3 
The Petitioner maintains that "because of its sheer size and novelty and the incredibly specialized 
nature of [ the Beneficiary's] field, any work that considerably advances its construction is a significant 
contribution to the entire area of P3 infrastructure consulting." More specifically, the Petitioner states 
that "[h ]is creation of its first benchmarks for procurement rd spelding therefore improve any P3 
infrastructure manarr anf affect any such project throughout while given how many workers 
are involved with s construction, there are unquestionably many people applying his 
contribution." While the Petitioner maintains thatl l"confirmed all of this" in his 0 
testimony, we disagree with that assertion. His letter, as noted, does not in fact address how the duties 
the Beneficiary performed fore=] on this project have advanced the construction of theO or how 
he has contributed "to the entire area of P3 infrastructure consulting," nor does it support a conclusion 
that there are "many people" applying the Benefici~ contributions in this field. He did not, for 
example, explain how the Beneficiary's work on the[__J project was particularly impactfol on other 
rail projects in this sector. 
We do not question that the Beneficiary was a valuable member ofOs team assigned to theO 
project or that the project itself is a significant, high profile 1rojec\ However, the Petitioner has not 
established that the Beneficiary's involvement on behalf of even if it will ultimately help to 
"advance the construction" of theLJ railway, equates to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner similarly claims that the Beneficiary's "original contributions to thel I had 
major significance to his entire field because it was an all-important P3 rail rrojey." The Petitioner 
ex lains that th is the first and only connection between the andl I 
.-!====..-------~~------') and "a vital part of thel ] 
.....,_ __ ➔, a program "intended to create a continent-wide P3 rail network." 
The Petitioner maintains that a letter frortj !"explains why [ the Beneficiary's] work 
on this ro·ect constituted a series of original contributions of major significance."4 Mr. 
'-----.-----'-w_h_o__,states that he was formerly the chief operating officer for this project, confirms 
that the.__ ____ ___.is "a critical part of this entire European transport corridor" and notes that the 
Beneficiary "was a significant advisor and contributor" throughout its construction. Specifically, he 
3 The Petitioner submitted background information from the website ot1 I (wwwOrg.uk) regarding~ 
high speed rail project, which indicates that it involves 345 miles of new high-speed track that will connectl___J 
Birmingham, Manchester and Leeds. with construction on Phase One (London-Birmingham) expected to start by 2026 and 
network completion b,.__2~03~3~. --~ 
4 A who previously worked with the Beneficia~ in her ro)e as a managing consu)tant 
with mentions this same project in passing. She notes that the!_ I 
project was one of many infrastructure projects he supp01ted while with his previous employer. 
6 
notes that the Beneficiary's duties as "a consultant and engineer" included: reviewing the construction 
progress over the schedule, assessing the project's commercial requirements, ensuring payment of 
project funds, holding meetings with public and private stakeholders, developing solutions with senior 
construction and rail engineers, and facilitating the project's completion! hsserts 
that the Beneficiary's contributions "reduced project risks by identifying specific technical and 
commercial issues" and he credits him with "contributing methods for the contractor to resolve these 
[issues] to ensure that the project could be delivered on time and on budget." He also notes that the 
Petitioner returned to this project following its completion to review and develop restructuring 
solutions for consideration by stakeholders. 
, 0 I praises the Beneficiary's "exceptional command of the wide-ranging and diverse 
transferable skills required for engineering, commercial and infrastructure rail and transport project 
delivery" and confirms that he has contributed to "many distinguished global organizations" working 
on "complex rail and transport projects." 
As with th~rail project, the Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that thd d 
was part of a significant high-speed rail undertaking. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains tha I , 'CO I "made clear that [the Beneficiary's] original contributions had major significance to 
the entire field of P3 management by describing how the tunnel is a critical centerpiece of the entire I I network, a continent-wide network of P3 rail lines responsible for modernizing infrastructure 
acrossl [" The Petitioner states that "any work that noticeably improved" this network "must 
have advanced P3 infrastructure management by extension" and maintains that~------~ 
testimony "described in detail how [the Beneficiary's] original contributions did that." 
However, as notedJ I testimony does not elaborate on how the Beneficiary's 
responsibilities related to thd lamounted to original contributions of major significance 
that went on to influence or impact the field of P3 infrastructure management consulting. The 
Petitioner requests that we make assumptions based on the importance of the overall project, a major 
undertaking in which the contributions of many professionals from many organizations were 
undoubtedly necessary to ensure its successful completion. ~--~---~ brief summary of 
the Beneficiary's project-related contributions, without more, is not sufficient to establish that he has 
made contributions that were widely implemented by others in the field or otherwise impacted 
subsequent the P3 infrastructure management projects in a way that is considered to be of major 
significance in this field. 
The third and final contribution referenced! by the retitioner on appeal relates to the Beneficiary's 
work on twc~ I construction projects in (known as the ~----__.routes) during his 
tenure with I I The Petitioner maintains that the Director "arbitrarily dismissed" the 
following testimony o~ I: 
As a key member of my teams [the Beneficiary] conducted due diligence advisory 
projects on about 500 km of majoc:::Jconstruction inl I such as [the~and I lroutes]. He had a significant role in the technical, commercial and financial 
analysis of these two major construction projects, both of which are today in full 
operational 320 km/hour service. By way of explanation, the projects were funded 
7 
under a P3 model and are part of some of the longestD routes delivered into 
operation inl I in the last decade. 
The Petitioner maintains that "by leading the creation of two of the longest new high-speed rail lines 
inl Ir the Beneficiary] undoubtedly made a contribution with major significance to the field," 
and notes that "this is particularly the case given that thee::] was just the second P3 high-speed line 
inl !history." The Petitioner asserts that the completion of these two lines was "a historic 
achievement that could not have happened without [the Beneficiary's] ... leadership" and "his 
prominent role in that accomplishment undoubtedly has major significance for the field of P3 
infrastructure management." 
I r '5 testimony does not support the Petitioner's suggestion that the Beneficiary was 
charged with "leading the creation" of thec=J andD high-speed rail lines and does not attribute 
this level of responsibility to him. He does not suggest that the Beneficiary spearheaded the entire rail 
delivery project or even led I ts advisory contribution. In fact[ I 
indicates in his letter that he personally mentored the Beneficiary during his tenure with! ____ ~ 0 so that he could "develop the skills necessary to become a consultant in the role of Lenders' 
Technical Advisor." As noted, he indicates that, as a member of a team, the Beneficiary performed 
due diligence activities and contributed technical, commercial and financial analyses, but he does not 
discuss the impact of these activities on the overall project, much less in the field, nor is it clear how 
the Beneficiary's contribution t(LJandc=] lines was novel or original. 
Upon review, although the authors of the aforementioned letters demonstrate that the Beneficiary's 
work is highly regarded by his colleagues, the letters do not establish how his work is viewed by the 
field as majorly significant. USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from 
universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. 
Caron, 19 l&N Dec. at 794. However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner correctly emphasizes, when assessing this criterion, USCIS officers are 
required to take into account the probative analysis that experts in the field may provide in opinion 
letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Here, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information 
identifying the Beneficiary's original contributions and explaining the unusual influence his consulting 
and advisory work has had on his specialized field. Further, the Petitioner's claims regarding the 
impact of the Beneficiary's contributions are not adequately supported by the testimonial evidence. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
5 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
6Id.at9. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In denying the petition, the Director addressed the Petitioner's submission of three letters from its own 
representatives and from a representative ofc=J but concluded that the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. The Director determined that the letters "do not provide 
detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the beneficiary's role was leading 
or critical for an entire organization or establishment." 
Upon review, we disagree with the Director's determination and conclude that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion based on his current role as a project commercial manager with the petitioning company. 7 
As noted, the Petitioner submitted three letters from high level employees familiar with the 
Beneficiary's work, as well as a very detailed position description for his position which identifies its 
relatively senior placement within the company's hierarchy. This evidence indicates that the 
Beneficiary was specifically recruited by the Petitioner not only to lead commercial and contractual 
aspects of one of its largest and most critical P3 rail projects, but also to help shape the company's 
regional strategy and practice in his area of expertise to ensure the company's continued growth in the 
rail and transport infrastructure sector. The evidence is sufficient to establish both the Beneficiary's 
critical role with the Petitioner's U.S. organization and the company's distinguished reputation. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meet at least three of the ten alternate criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
7 The Petitioner also claimed that the Beneficiary served in a "critical or essential capacity" based on work he performed 
for the government of the~---.....,....-~ and forl I Although the Director did not 
address these claims in his decision. we note that this error is harmless considering our reversal of the Director's 
determination that the Beneficiary did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
9 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Although the Beneficiary has worked for employers that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation in the transportation and infrastructure consulting field and provided advisory 
and consulting services on some high profile projects, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 29, 2024 In Re: 29547063 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a camera operator specializing in combat zone coverage, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has a level of expertise indicating that he is one of the small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks to work as a camera operator in the United States. The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentation to meet four of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 1 
and proceeded to a final merits analysis, determining that the overall record did not establish the 
Petitioner's sustained record of national acclaim or that he is one ofthe small percentage that has risen 
to the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, incorporation documents, and a letter regarding a job offer, 
and documentation he previously submitted with the underlying petition. Upon review, the Petitioner 
has not overcome the Director's denial, for the reasons below. 
A. Initial Evidentiary Criteria 
As a preliminary matter, we will withdraw the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that meets 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion 
based on various military awards from his time as a combat camera operator and a special prize he 
won at the 20071 IFilm Festival in Georgia. 
First, the record indicates that nearly all of the Petitioner's military awards, such as thel I 
medal from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and thel Ifrom the 
Georgian Ministry of Defense, were awarded to military and other personnel for participation in 
various operations and campaigns. There is no indication that these are awards in the Petitioner's field 
of combat camera operation, or that they recognize excellence in that field. As such, they do not 
qualify the Petitioner for this criterion. 
The Petitioner's Certificate of Commendation from the U.S. Marine Corps states that it was awarded 
to him for "outstanding achievements in the performance of his duties as a combat cameraman." 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not indicate, that he meets the initial evidentiary requirement through 
a major, internationally recognized award ("one-time achievement"). 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
However, while this award was granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field, there is no indication 
in the record that it is nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner provided documentation 
regarding the history and prestige ofthe Marine Corps, but did not provide evidence showing that their 
Certificates of Commendation are recognized beyond the rewarding entity. This award therefore also 
does not qualify the Petitioner for this criterion. 
Thel Iaward was granted to the Petitioner for a documentary about combat camera 
operators which he co-directed. The record includes a copy of the award as well as promotional 
documents regarding the~------- but these documents do not indicate what criteria were 
used to grant this award, the number of other awardees, or whether this award is nationally or 
internationally recognized beyond the rewarding entity. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Instead, the documentation rovided onl indicates 
that this was a "special diploma" granted by "the Georgia social com an The 
record therefore does not establish that the special award from the~------~is awarded for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field or that it is nationally or internationally recognized, and so this 
award does not qualify under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes for excellence in his field of endeavor. However, the 
Petitioner's documentation still meets the required three initial evidentiary criteria: 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published material about the Petitioner in major media; (vii), display of the 
Petitioner's work in artistic exhibitions; and (viii), performing a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations. We will therefore proceed to a final 
merits determination under Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115, 19-20. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In the decision notice, the Director conducted a final merits analysis of the totality of the record under 
Kazarian, and concluded that the Petitioner did not have a record of sustained national or international 
acclaim or show that he is one of a small percentage that has risen to the very top of his field, and so 
does not qualify for the extraordinary ability classification. Id. Upon review, the Petitioner has not 
overcome this denial ground. 
The Petitioner claims that by fulfilling at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
he has established that he has extraordinary ability. However, evaluating whether a petition meets the 
initial evidentiary requirements of a one-time achievement or at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) is only the first step of the two-step Kazarian analysis, not the totality of 
it. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115, 19-20. If a petitioner meets these initial requirements, we continue to 
the second step, which is reviewing the overall record to determine whether the petitioner meets the 
statutory and regulatory definition of extraordinary ability. Id. Here, while the Petitioner has met 
three criteria, he has done so with evidence that does not establish that he has a sustained record of 
national or international acclaim in his field. 
The overall record indicates that the Petitioner is a skilled combat camera operator who has 
documented several international conflicts under highly dangerous circumstances. However, most of 
the evidence pertaining to his acclaim dates to the period from 2007 to 2009, when he co-directed and 
3 
released documentaries about combat camera operators working to record the Russo-Georgian war. 
The Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), display at artistic exhibitions, solely 
because one ofhis documentaries was shown at a film festival in 2007. Similarly, he met the published 
material ground 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) on the basis of three television interviews, two from 2009 
and one from 2023. Two of these three interviews, including the one from 2023, were conducted and 
aired by the television channels where the Petitioner was employed at the time, which diminishes their 
probative weight as evidence of his national acclaim. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(8)(3) ("It is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim would have received recognition for their accomplishments well 
beyond the circle oftheir personal and professional acquaintances."). As noted above, the Petitioner's 
awards were almost all granted for participation in various military campaigns, not for excellence in 
his field. The Petitioner has not established that showing a film in one festival and being interviewed 
three times in 14 years are achievements which reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field," as 
contemplated by Congress for the extraordinary ability classification. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sep. 19, 1990). 
We acknowledge the many expert support letters submitted by the Petitioner's coworkers in Georgian 
television, which speak highly of his abilities and his work. However, such letters should be 
corroborated by documentary evidence in the record. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(8)(3). Here, the evidence of the Petitioner's acclaim beyond 2009 is sparse, and does not 
constitute the kind of "extensive documentation" contemplated by section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Nor does this evidence establish that the Petitioner has sustained a national or international level of 
acclaim over time. Id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates the prestige of his military awards and notes that only a small 
percentage of people serve in the military, contending that this means he is one ofthat small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(2). However, the foll text 
of the regulation defines extraordinary ability as "a level ofexpertise indicating that the individual is 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." Id. ( emphasis 
added). The relevant question is not whether the Petitioner's occupation is uncommon within the 
general population, but whether his level of expertise is uncommon within his occupation, as 
demonstrated by extensive documentation of his achievements in the field. Id.; section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner has not provided such documentation here. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
has long held that even athletes at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954-5 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The totality of 
the evidence provided does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained a national or international 
level of acclaim over time or that he is one of that small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). He is therefore ineligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification, and the petition will remain denied. 
C. Continuing to Work in Area of Expertise 
Beyond the decision of the Director, we note that in order to qualify for the extraordinary ability 
criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he is coming to the United States in order to continue to 
4 
work in his claimed area of expertise, which is camera operation in conflict zones. In his initial 
personal statement, the Petitioner stated: "Upon the approval of my petition, I intend to continue 
working in New York, USA" as a camera operator. 2 However, the record indicates that the Petitioner 
has been employed by the Georgian television station I I since 2020 as a "Cameraman 
Coordinator and Lecturer." There is no indication that the Petitioner's work withl Ihas 
involved combat camera operation. Instead, the recommendation letters, military awards, and other 
documents in the record indicate he last worked as a camera operator in a conflict zone in 2017, six 
years prior to the petition's filing. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a certificate of incorporation for~-------~' a company 
he founded inD2023, as well as a July 2023 letter from M-G-stating that he has invited the 
Petitioner to work as a director of photography for his company in New York. This letter states that 
"our company has plan[ s] to produce [a] documentary web-series about successful Georgians working 
in the USA" and that they would also like the Petitioner "as an experienced cameraman to deliver 
masterclasses to the Georgian juveniles who live in the USA and who want[] to become a cameraman." 
In light of the fact that the Petitioner has not worked as a combat camera operator in several years, this 
letter and the Petitioner's statement do not suffice to establish that the Petitioner is coming to the 
United States to continue working in his area of exceptional ability as a combat camera operator. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established his eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
Furthermore, beyond the decision of the Director, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established 
that he is coming to the United States to continue working in his area of exceptional ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The Petitioner is currently in the United States after being admitted under the nonimmigrant classification for 
representatives of information media. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(i). 
5 MATTER OF V-S-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate. their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose.achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional eviden~e and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Sectjon 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, mis, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose . achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
requirements. First, a petltloner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). · 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, -to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher at the School of Medicine in As he 
has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the 
Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but not for original contributions of major 
significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
criterion for original contributions of major significance. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria. 
Evidence o.f the alien ·s participation. either individually or on a panel. as a judge o.f the work 
of others in the same or an allied field <~f specfficalion for which class~fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
conducted reviews for the following journals Neuropsychiatrk -Disease and Treatment, Advances in 
Genomics and Genetics, and other journals. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets the 
requirements of this criterion. 
2 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
Evidence of the alien's original scientffic, scholarly. artistic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions of major signffzcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific , scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund. LP .. 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter. 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia. 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Director held that the letters from professors and researchers that were submitted with the initial 
petition and in response to the request for evidence (RFE) did not establish the major significance of 
the Petitioner 's original contributions in the field to meet this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that this evidence establishes that he was the first to discover the relationship of the 
gene in preventing congenital heart disease and its effects in wound healing and neurologica) 
disorders. He also states that he was "the first to establish the relationship between mutations 
and the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive primary microcephaly, a debilitating brain condition in 
infants." We will address each of these points below.1 
Regarding the letters from the professors and researchers in the record, an agency "may, in its 
discretion, use as advisory opinions statements ... submitted in evidence as expert testimony," but it 
is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. Matter of Caron Int 'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). 
In support of the the Petitioner's research on the gene, the record contains a letter from 
an assistant professor at who states that "[the Petitioner's] 
work was the first to show and its molecular role in neurological disorders." 
then indicates, "Further research is needed to determine the exact impact this protein has on the 
progression of neural disorders , but [the Petitioner's] work is an important first step to understand 
the pathophysiology of these diseases." adds, "The increasing incidence of 
neurodegenerative disorders means that the need to find a treatment or a cure, of which there are 
1 Counsel for the Petitioner states that the Director "denied the major significance of [the Petitioner's] work on the basis 
of a semantic distinction that is neither found in the regulatory language nor inherent to the concept of major 
significance." Specifically, the Petitioner refers to the Director's use of the terms "impact" and "importance" as used in 
an article the Petitioner submitted from the journal Scientometrics . See Lutz Bornmann and Werner Marx, "How to 
evaluate individual researchers working in the natural and life sciences meaningfully? A proposal of methods based on 
percentiles of citations. " 98 Scientometri cs 496(2014). While we acknowledge the authors' use of these terms in their 
scholarly discussion on evaluating researchers, the focus here is on whether the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Visinscaia, supra, ("Contributions of major significance " 
mean that the Petitioner 's work has significantly impacted the field). 
3 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
none, is becoming more urgent." She then asserts that "his work represents a vital step in advancing 
our understanding of these conditions and eventually finding ways to treat them." Here, the letter 
attests to the originality of the Petitioner's contribution, but speaks prospectively of its impact, 
indicating that the Petitioner's research on has not yet been of major significance to the field. 
Other letters in the record also discuss the Petitioner 's research on 2 For example, 
professor of pharmacology at the , . states that the Petitioner 
"concluded that is essential for normal cardiac function, and the deficiency of this protein 
leads to dilated cardiomyopathy and other cardiac issues, making this protein and the mutant mice 
that he created important tools for investigating new treatments for cardiovascular diseases." 
associate professor at the states in his letter 
that the Petitioner "found that plays an important role in neuronal development in the brain" 
and that it is "abundantly expressed in the skin during wound healing." Letters that specifically 
articulate how an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value, while those that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do 
not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.3 While these letters indicate that he has provided additional knowledge about 
the record does not demonstrate in specific detail how the Petitioner's work has been implemented 
such to show that it has significantly impacted the field. 
professor emeritus at the in Germany, indicates in her 
letter that the Petitioner 's research articles on "have been cited more than 80 times by many 
leading researchers in the field." However, the fact that the Petitioner has published articles that 
other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance . 
Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d l 030, l 036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. As noted by the Director, the goal of all researcl1 is "to be pioneering and 
innovative," or in other words, to advance the understanding of the topics of research. Although 
these citations show that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the number of citations to his individual papers is indicative of significant influence 
within the field. 
The record contains a letter from assistant professor at who 
provides prenatal and preconception genetic counseling to patients and has reached out to the 
Petitioner on behalf of patients in her clinic. The record also contains a letter from an 
assistant professor of medicine in the division of cardiology at the 
who states that based on the Petitioner's research she began having her patients screened 
for genetic mutations and then studying their gene. While these are examples of how the 
2 Although we may not discuss every letter in the record, all were reviewed and considered in reaching our conclusion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html . · 
4 
.
Matter of V-S-P-
/ 
Petitioner has provided guidance to clinical practitioners, the record does not establish that assisting 
two individuals and their patients equates to a contribution of major significance to the whole field. 
In a letter from vice dean for innovation and development at the 
College of Medicine, she discusses a book chapter she wrote focusing on the structure and 
function of the human heart. She states that she ''extensively discussed the implications and 
significance of [the Petitioner's] findings regarding the molecular functions of in terms of 
disease-causing mutations. " The Petitioner has not shown that this book is widely used in the field 
or other evidence demonstrating that the inclusion of his work in this text indicates it is of major 
significance to the field. 
The Petitioner also contends that his research on mutations constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance. states that "[the Petitioner] and his colleagues 
studied a consanguineous eight generation family that had ten microcephalic children" and that he 
identified a mutation that was the "causal variant for [microcephaly]." The Petitioner notes 
four examples of other researchers who have cited his published findings and notes that his article 
discussing has been cited 63 times. He submits a graph from Microsoft Research which 
ranks the impact and productivity of his publications, but this is of limited probative value as the 
record does not demonstrate who compiled this report and where the data in the graph originated. 
The record also contains information from Google Scholar listing the citations for each of his 
publications and data from Clarivate Analytics which indicates that this article on mutations 
· ranks among the top ten percent most cited articles for 2013. While we note that this is the 
Petitioner's most cited article, he has not established that this citation rate shows that his work has 
been widely implemented in the field. Citations to a petitioner 's publications do not alone equate to 
contribution of major significance. See Kazarian. 580 F.3d at 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), a.ff'd in part. 596 
F.3d 1115 (publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
are of "major significance" in the field). Although these citations show that his research has 
received attention from the field, the Petitioner has not shown that the number of citations to his 
irydividual papers is indicative of significant influence in the field. The Petitioner has not otherwise 
shown the impact that his research on mutations has had in the field. "Contributions of major 
significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner notes that his findings have been incorporated into medical diagnostic guidelines, but 
the record contains only a single genetics test that references his research. He has not shown that _ 
medical diagnostic guidelines in the field at large have incorporated his research. He also cites a 
summary of a book published by GeneReviews/ which contains the research of and 
others, indicating that microcephaly disorders are associated with gene mutations, including 
but the Petitioner has not shown that these researchers cite his work or that this book has been of 
4 The record contains a summary of GeneReviews which states that it is "an international point-of-care resource for busy 
clinicians." See www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK 1116/. 
5 
Matter of V-S-P-
major significance to the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that his research 
constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field to meet this criterion. · 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship <~[ scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in the 
following journals: Human Molecular Genetics, Cellular and Molecular L[fe Sciences, and Nucleic 
Acids Research, among others. Thus, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of V-S-P-, ID# 1940214 (AAO Jan. 30, 2019) MATTER OF E-M-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JAN. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an avant-garde dance artist, seeks classification as an indi~idual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a short statement, claiming that she meets an additional criterion 
and indicates on the Form 1-2908, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that "[her] brief and/or additional 
evidence will be submitted to [us] within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal" in June 20 I 8. 
However, as of the date of this decision, we have not received any additional submission. We will 
therefore adjudicate the appeal based on the record before us. 
Upon de nova review, we .will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. · 
Matter of E-M-P-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R, 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). lf the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the.context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R[jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value~ and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the "display of [her] work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record supports this 
conclusion, because the evidence shows that the Petitioner has performed as a dancer in shows and 
exhibitions. To satisfy the initial evidence requirements, the Petitioner must therefore establish that 
she meets two additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 The Petitioner has not 
asserted or established that she satisfies two additional criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has presented "[p ]ublished material about [her] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [her] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). While the record includes published 
materials, she has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. She offered an article that appeared 
on the website npr.org. While we accept that this website constitutes major media, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the published material is about her. The article is about a "Massachusetts dream-pop 
band" and references the Petitioner as a dancer in one of the band's musical videos. The Petitioner 
has not established or explained on appeal how this evidence is sufficient under the criterion. 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, she must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
Matter of E-M-P-
The record includes other published materials. They, however, also do not satisfy the criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Most of them are listings of the Petitioner's performances, along with 
other shows, informing the readers of the performing arts offerings in a particular city during a 
specified period. The Petitioner has not illustrated that these listings are "about [her] ... relating to 
[her] work in the field," as required under the criterion. Moreover, while she has presented other 
published materials that are about her, she has not shown that they appeared in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. There are some circulation and readership data in the 
record, but the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the magazines or websites qualify 
as professional or major trade publications or other major media. In addition, some of the pieces do 
not identify the author, as required under ·g C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In light of the above, the 
· Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Although the Petitioner has not claimed on appeal that she meets the "participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others" criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the record appears to show that she has submitted relevant evidence concerning 
this criterion. Specifically, documentation in the record indicates that she judged performances of 
dancers to determine if they should be admitted to a New York dance school. Assuming arguendo 
that she satisfies this criterion, she would nonetheless not meet the initial evidence requirements of 
presenting evidence satisfying at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Based on the evidence in the record as well as the.arguments the Petitioner advances on appeal, she 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of the 
record in its entirety, we conclude that it d~es not support a finding that she has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ~f Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r._ 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
her artistic and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work. in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2J. . 
3 
Matter of E-M-P-
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of E-M-P-, ID# 1956749 (AAO Jan. 30, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6222696 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner practices and teaches karate. The record offers incomplete evidence regarding the 
Petitioner's employment. Materials in the record appear to indicate that he was a science teacher in I l while remaining active as a competitor. As of 2018, he was teaching martial arts to children 
and young adults with autism and developmental disabilities. He states that he seeks to "open schools in 
different places," and to establish "a Sports Cultural Park in which he will train both special need and 
non-special need students."1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the first evidentiary criterion, relating to prizes. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the third, fourth, and eighth evidentiary criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met any of them. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the requirements of this criterion, because the Petitioner 
"submitted evidence in the form of newspaper articles which establishes the beneficiary was part of a 
1 When he filed the petition in December 2016, he was not authorized to work or reside in the United States, his B-2 
nonimmigrant visitor's visa having expired in June 2016. He subsequently obtained work authorization. 
2 
team ... which won first place on two occasions at thd I Games." For the reasons explained 
below, we disagree and withdraw this portion of the Director's decision. 
A translated 1996 news;aper cli~ing from Meridiano profiled an athlete from the UniversiF ofj I, who c~rpeted lat the ',__ ____________ _.' ( I 1 I) i Florida. The article indicates that athletes are scored 
on kata, defined as "form," and kumite, defined as "combat." A passage in that article reads: "Our brand 
new champion also said that other athlete winners were" five named athletes, including the Petitioner, 
said to have won a "black ribbon, third in kumte [sic]." 
Undated clippings from unnamed publications indicate that the~team, including the Petitioner, won 
various prizes at I !competitions in I I Without dates, we cannot tell how many different 
competitions are discussed. 
The regulation requires documentation of the Petitioner's receipt of his claimed prizes. The Petitioner 
did not submit documentation from the claimed awarding entity, and the newspaper articles contain 
minimal information about the prizes and the competitions. Only one article is dated, and even then, that 
article cited a teammate who "said that other athlete winners" included the Petitioner. Thus, the 
information about the Petitioner's performance in the 1996 competition is third-hand, rather than 
documentation of his receipt of any prize or award. 
The I ts founder states that the event has occurred annually inl I since 1979, and "is recognized 
worldwide as one of the most important" of its kind. A statement from the event's own founder cannot 
suffice to establish the event's claimed international recognition. Officials of other martial arts schools 
contend that the I I "is recognized worldwide as one of the most important" and "the greatest 
tournament in martial arts worldwide," but the record lacks evidence of a caliber that ought to be readily 
available if this were the case. These individuals claim that several different martial arts organizations 
"endorse this tournament," but the record contains no corroboration from those organizations. 
The Petitioner submits what he claims is "an online print-out ofthel bames' website 
informin the ames will be held inc=] Peru in 2019." The submitted printout is from Wikipedia, not 
"the~--.------..--~ Games' website." Furthermore, the submitted printout concerns "Karate at 
the 2019,__ ___ ___, Games," not thel [ Tuel I Games are held every for yearl in 
different locations; the Petitioner acknowrdges Tat the 2019 games were inl I The in 
contrast, takes place every year, always in There is no evident connection between the events 
other than the similar names. On appeal, the Petitioner specifically claims to have won prizes "at the I !Games," and the Director appears to have relied on this information when finlding thj1 the 
Petitioner had satisfied the regulatory requirements of this criterion. The conflation of the with 
the unrelated! I Games raises very serious questions regarding the Petitioner's credibility and 
good faith. 
We withdraw the Director's favorable finding because (1) the record does not establish that prizes or 
awards from thel lare nationally or internationally recognized, and (2) the Petitioner did not submit 
documentary evidence that he received the claimed prizes or awards from the I I 
3 
The Petitioner also submitted copies of certificates, containing the following information: 
• The Karate! I organization gave the Petitioner a certificate of recognition in 2010 "for his 
valuable contribution and commitment to all the activities of this organization, to promote 
between children and adults the fundamental values of respect, discipline, and perseverance 
integral to being human." 
• Another certificate from Karatel I from 2015, recognized the Petitioner's "long career as 
an athlete, perseverance and dedication on the formation of martial artists of new generations." 
• The Free Karate Association System ofl I gave the Petitioner an "Honor of Merit" in 
2015 "for his great career in martial arts ... , being a fundamental pillar for the formation of new 
generations of practitioners of our style." 
The Petitioner did not establish that these certificates are nationally or internationally reco~rizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. We note that one certificate from KarateL__Jbears 
the Petitioner's signature, and identifies him as president of the organization. Newspaper clippings in the 
record appear to indicate that Karatel I originated atD while the Petitioner was on the "science 
faculty" there. 
The record does not include documentation showing that the Petitioner received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of certificates indicating that he performed functions for the International 
Sport Karate Association and the World Kickboxing League. The certificates do not specifically refer to 
the Petitioner as a member of either organization or establish their membership requirements. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. Because the Petitioner has not 
contested this finding on appeal, he has effectively abandoned it. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 
4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several newspaper clippings, some of which the Petitioner also cited 
as evidence of his claimed prizes and awards. The Director found these clippings to be deficient because 
they do not include the required title, date, author, or some combination of these. Clippings from 
unidentified sources cannot be shown to come from major media. Also, the Petitioner is not the subject 
4 
of these article; generally, the articles list participants in competitions, including the Petitioner's name 
among many others. 
Some articles from identified publications mention the Petitioner only briefly. For instance, the 
previously discussed 1996 article in Meridiano named the Petitioner only in the context of a list of 
competitors. Other articles, such as a 2002 article from Calidad de Vida, did not identify the Petitioner 
at all. These articles are not about the Petitioner as the regulation requires. 
Only one submitted article includes the title, author, and date, and devotes significant attention to the 
Petitioner. A 2000 article in Torneo quoted the Petitioner at length regarding a "new training system" at ~ The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that Torneo qualifies as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
Asked for more evidence, the Petitioner submitted background information about El Nacional, Ultimas 
Noticia, and Meridiano Television. The Petitioner relies on this information on appeal as well. The 
Petitioner has not shown, however, that those media outlets published material about him. One 
photocopied article shows the title Ultimas Noticia, but that article mentions the Petitioner only once, 
when reporting how members of the Petitioner's team performed at a competition. The Petitioner did not 
establish the connection, if any, between the Meridiano newspaper and Meridiano Television, and even 
then, as noted, the Meridiano article is about a different athlete and mentions the Petitioner only once. 
We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Two claimed criteria remain: 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Nevertheless, as shown above, the Petitioner has not satisfied any of the criteria already discussed. As 
such, the two remaining criteria cannot suffice to meet the Petitioner's initial evidentiary requirements. 
Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues. 2 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22678658 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 31, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pastor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirement s for this classification , he did not 
establish that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at 
the very top of his field. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director's decision is conclusory and without a thoughtful evaluation of the entire record. The 
Petitioner also contends that the Director analyzed the evidence under a higher standard of proof going 
beyond the standard of preponderance of the evidence and dismissed probative documentation in the 
record. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastor in the field of Christian missions. The Petitioner has not indicated that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the ten 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
the following five criteria: (1) published material in professional or major trade publications, (2) the 
receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, (3) original business 
contributions of major significance, (4) performance in a critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation, and ( 5) membership in associations for which require outstanding 
achievements of their members. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the following four criteria: (1) published material in 
professional or major trade publications, (2) original business contributions of major significance, (3) 
performance in a critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and ( 4) 
membership in associations for which require outstanding achievements of their members. Upon 
review of the record, we agree with the Director's determination regarding the published material 
criterion but do not agree with the Director's determination regarding the original contributions, 
critical role, and membership in associations criteria. Therefore, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner claimed that he has made a significant contribution in the field, specifically in his ability 
to identify, analyze, and solve pressing societal needs through the efforts of his nonprofit organization, 
___________________ To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted 
recommendation letters from various individuals, information about from from the website, a 
pre-meeting package of a balance sheet ofl I bank statements of invoices 
issued tol I and transaction receipts of !showing transfers of money from to various 
individuals. 
For example, a letter from I I a pastor and a Christian singer, states that through __ 
the Petitioner has become well known as one of the leading missionaries and he brought material, 
emotional, and spiritual support to Christians undergoing great tribulations. The Petitioner also 
submitted a letter from I I a member of U.S. Congress, which states that the Petitioner has 
created and implemented one of the most innovative ministries in Brazil by providing "methods and a 
structure, such as farming, micro-credit, sports programs, leadership training, and other creative 
projects." A letter from I I the Attorney General of the State of !Brazil, 
states that I I has helped communities establish schools, pig and chicken farming in various 
regions, job training, and sports programs and that the Petitioner's vision of ministry is very unique, 
and it addresses a global problem with a focus on the local communities. The Petitioner also submitted 
a letter from I I the Director and founder ofl I which states that I I aims to 
transform local communities where Christians are persecuted and strengthen them to stay and thrive, 
despite the adversity. A letter from in the Legislative 
Branch of the government of Brazil, states that the Petitioner established a novel missionary model 
where he sends out leaders, including business administrators and other professionals, who will equip 
and train church leaders and members with practical skills and solutions. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field as claimed. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Major significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. The 
recommendation letters indicate that the Petitioner has created and implemented innovative ministries 
by providing methods and a structure, such as farming, micro-credit, sports programs, leadership 
training, and other creative projects. However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
establish that he is solely responsible for creating and implementing these various programs. The 
record does not sufficiently establish the Petitioner's role in these various programs. The record also 
does not sufficiently demonstrate his control or influence over the claimed contributions. Moreover, 
while the recommendation letters discuss missionary activities of in general, they do not explain 
3 
how the Petitioner's missionary work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not sufficiently 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's methods or techniques have been widely used by others in the field. 
The documents in the record do not demonstrate how his contributions rise to a level consistent with 
major significance. Vague, solicited letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
the petitioner's contributions have already influenced the field is insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 
2009) aff'd in part 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed that he has performed in a critical role in the establishment of lin several 
regions that played a major role with Haitian hurricane relief effort, micro-financing in Burundi, and 
pig and chicken farming in Guinea Bissau. The Petitioner also claimed that he performed in a critical 
role for the government of Brazil when he was asked to assist in resolving problems exacerbated from 
an influx of refugees. To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters from 
various individuals, information aboutl I from thel I website, and business entity summary 
of I from the Massachusetts Secretary of State website. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I the Director and founder of I 
which states that the Petitioner, the founder and leader of has influenced a whole generation of 
Brazil to do good things and transform the community. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from 
the President and founder ofl I which states that the Petitioner's vision of 
ministry is so fresh and exiting that it attracts high caliber leaders to carry the to torch ofl I with him. 
A letter from I I a member of U.S. Congress, states that has provided emergency 
assistance to the government of Brazil in receiving persecuted Christians who sought asylum in Brazil 
through programs that help those refugees with assimilation and integration in the local culture. A 
letter froml la senator of Brazil, states that has provided support to the government 
of Brazil in the processing and resettlement of Christian refugees who fled persecution in their 
countries. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence from thel I website about the organization but did 
not submit sufficient independent, objective evidence demonstrating that I I has a reputation that 
distinguishes it from other Christian missionary organizations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. However, a review 
of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that he was admitted to the Church of America as a minister under 
the extraordinary clause of the _____ Order because of his extraordina credentials as a 
theologist and missionary. To su ort this claim, the Petitioner submitted (1) 
Stated Meeting of New Jerse Church in America and (2) the 
I !Order of the Church in America ____ 
The INew Jersey! I states that the Committee has reviewed the Petitioner's 
college and seminary transcri ts and several recommendation letters that directly speak to his service 
as a minister in the Church of Brazil and his work with I I and 
recommended that New Jerse xamines the Petitioner under the extraordinary clause 
according to the Order, sections 13-6 and 21-4, for transfer into the I I 
Church of America. Section 21-4 of the I !Order states that the extraordinary clause 
should be limited to "extraordinary circumstances of the church or proven extraordinary gifts of the 
man." Section 13-6 of the I I Order states that ministers seeking admission to a 
I I in the I Church in America from other I I must be examined on 
"Christian experience, and also touching their views in theology, the Sacraments, and church 
government." 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The record does not reflect that admission to the Church 
of America as a minister under the extraordinary clause of the I I Order requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. Instead, the record reflects that the extraordinary clause is 
limited to extraordinary circumstances of the church or proven extraordinary gifts of the members and 
that the admission requires a review of Christian experience of the members and their views in 
theology, the Sacraments, and church government. Membership requirements based on activity in a 
given field, knowledge in a given field, personal or spiritual views on related subjects, or faith in the 
principal object to be a member do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the claim that 
thel I Church of America requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has shown that he is a devout Christian and a devoted 
pastor in the field of Christian missions. However, the record as a whole does not demonstrate a level 
of recognition that indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the reasons stated above. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JAN. 31, 2024 In Re: 29504977 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria or provide sufficient evidence that she is coming to the 
United States to continue to work in her area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established her receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not 
fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains she meets five evidentiary categories. 1 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on her membership with the.._l_____ _. 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership 
requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in 
that field. 2 The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 3 
The Petitioner submitted her membership card for the I land information about the association, 
including its "Rules to Join" and "Process to Join." She also provided biographical profiles for two 
individuals who she claims serve on theLJmembership review panel. The "Rules to Join" state 
that an "applicant with more than 9 points (including 9 points) meets the performance conditions for 
applying for membership." In addition, the "Rules to Join" indicate that points are granted based on 
1 We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not raised or contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not 
raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 
25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manuaL 
3 Id. 
2 
numerous criteria, including having "participated in exhibitions," "engaged in the restoration of fine 
arts ... for more than 15 years," and "worked continuously in ... art research institutions for more 
than 15 years." The "Rules to Join" further state that "[b ]achelor of full-time national key art colleges 
and universities gets 1 point, full-time master gets 2 points and full-time doctor gets 3 points"; 
"[e]thnic minorities in remote areas get 2 points"; and "[f]emale artists in remote areas get 2 points." 
The Petitioner has not established that the aforementioned membership criteria rise to the level of 
outstanding achievements. 
Furthermore, the "Rules to Join" do not indicate that admission to membership in the~is judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. For example, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the "preliminary examination unit," the "Membership Office," the 
"Member Work Department," or the "Party Group" of thee=] that reviews applicants is comprised 
of national or international experts in the arts. While the Petitioner provided the rograrhical profiles 
for F-M, Secretary-General of the D and Q-T-, First-level Inspector of the this evidence 
does not establish that those serving as CAA membership reviewers are considered to be recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner claims eli ibilit for this criterion based on her authorshi ofa book, entitled 
and articles in '-------------------------'4 
First, USCIS determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field. 5 As defined 
in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or 
philosophical discourse. 6 It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with 
a college, university, or research institution. 7 Scholarly articles are generally peer reviewed by other 
experts in the field of specialization. 8 In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, 
and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the 
article. 9 Here, the record does not show that the Petitioner's published work contains the 
characteristics of scholarly articles, as considered in the academic arena. The Petitioner did not 
establish that she wrote the articles as a researcher or exl)ert rather than writing a general interest 
stories aboutl Ias an educator or the town ofc=]and its artifacts. Moreover, none of 
her articles contain the features of academic scholarly articles, such as footnotes or bibliographies. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that her book and articles qualify as scholarly articles 
within the purview of academia. 
4 She submitted articles in entitled 
,,______________ --,-_______ __, (2013) and .______________ __, 
~----------~(2015).
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
3 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 10 "Learned" is 
defined as having "profound knowledge gained by study."11 Learned persons include all persons 
having profound knowledge of a field. 12 Here, the Petitioner did not show that her publications were 
written for learned persons in the visual arts field or for other learned persons in her particular genre. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that her publications are geared toward persons having 
profound knowledge in Chinese painting and rubbing. 
Next, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or other major media publication. 13 In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other media in the field for ma·or 
media . 14 Here the Petitioner has not shown that the intended audience for 
.____________________ _. is indicative of a professional publication. Nor has 
she demonstrated that their circulation or readership rises to the level of major trade publications or 
other major media. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that her material qualifies as 
scholarly articles under this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner submitted certificates statin resented her work at exhibitions such as China's ~---------------.......,_ ___ _.____ ~ 
.________________________ __.Art Exhibition. As such, she has 
demonstrated that she fulfills this single criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. For a leading role, USCIS looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or 
was) a leader within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 15 A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. 16 For a 
critical role, USCIS looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or 
those of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 17 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
11 Id. (citing to the Oxford English Dictionary's definition of"leamed"). 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
16 Id. 
17 Id. 
4 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that she has performed in a leading or critical role for~I---~ 
._________ ___. She initially provided an August 2018 "Letter of Appointment" naming her 
"a lifelong consultant" ofl I In addition, the Petitioner submitted an August 2018 "Testimonial" 
(bearing a seal from I bthat stated: "Because of her success in making full-form rubbings for the 
bronzes in the collection of I I, [the Petitioner] has promoted the exhibition and academic 
exchange of our collection, and has made significant contributions to the protection and research of 
cultural relics. Hereby we would like to appoint [the Petitioner] as a lifelong consultant of I I." 
The author of this 'Testimonial" is not identified and no address or telephone number were included 
in the document. The Petitioner also submitted various images of what she claims are "full-form 
rubbings for the bronzes collection," but this documentation does not include evidence attributing the 
bronze collection rubbings to the Petitioner or her work atl I 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a March 2023 letter 
from Z-D-, Curator ofl Istating: 
I am very grateful to [the Petitioner] for serving as such a critical role of expert 
consultant for our museum. For a long time, [the Petitioner's] outstanding 
achievements in the production of full-form rubbing are in close agreement with our 
museum's key project -the collection, protection, and archaeological research of 
bronze ware. As an expert consultant for our museum, [ the Petitioner] has played such 
a significant role in strengthening the protection of bronze relics, in-depth research on 
cultural relics resources, history and culture, promoting the activation and utilization 
of cultural relics, and promoting science popularization. 
While the letter from Z-D-asserts that the Petitioner's work involving "the production of full-form 
rubbing are in close agreement with our museum's key project -the collection, protection, and 
archaeological research of bronze ware," an article submitted by the Petitioner states that the 
is "the only museum dedicated to the history and culture of the 
I !(emphasis added). The letter from Z-D-does not ~c-on_t_a-in-su_f_f-1c-i-en_t_i_n_fo_rm_a_t-io-n-an-d~ 
explanation, nor does the record include adequate corroboratin evidence, to show that the Petitioner's 
full-form rubbings for the bronzes in the collection of is the "museum's key project," given 
thaU Iis primarily a museum of.________________ ___. The August 2018 
"Testimonial" and the letter from Z-D-indicate that the Petitioner has contributed tol Ibronze 
rubbings collection, but their assertions are not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
consulting role for the museum was leading or critical. For example, another article provided by the 
Petitioner states thatl Ihas "56 employees," but the Petitioner did not provide an organizational 
chart or other similar evidence to establish where her role fit within the overall hierarchy of the 
museum to demonstrate a leading role. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that she has contributed to 
the museum in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of its mission or operations. 18 
Next, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for 
which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 19 Merriam-
18 For instance, the Petitioner has not shown that her specific projects have significantly increased attendance at the 
museum. 
19 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence" or "befitting an eminent person."20 Here, the Petitioner initially submitted an article about I Ientitled stating that it "officially 
opened on 2010." In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted another 
article indicating that,__~~ "is a national tier two comprehensive museum." She also provided an 
article stating that "there are 204 tier one museums, 455 tier two museums, and 565 tier three 
museums" according to the Chinese Museums Association (CMA). The Petitioner contends that this 
information shows that I I"is among top 10%" in China," but her calculation is incorrect. 21 The 
Petitioner has not established that "tier two" CMA classification renders I Ian organization with 
a distinguished reputation. 
Nor are the remaining articles offered in support ofthis criterion sufficient to demonstrate thatl ] 
has earned a distinguished reputation. For example, a~2006 article, entitled I II Idiscusses only the museum's development phase and start of construction 
lanned for the latter art of 2006. Likewise, an 2010 article, entitled I I 
discusses the official opening 
~o-f--;=I===1·a_n_d_1_· ts_a_rt-if:_a_c-ts-an_d_e_x_h-ib-i-ti_o_n_a_r_e-as-_-T_h_e_s_e_a_rt_i_cl_e_s_d_o_n_o_t~establish that the museum has 
achieved a distinguished reputation. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner meets the display criterion, but has not established she satisfies the criteria 
relating to 
membership, authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical role. Although the Petitioner also 
claims eligibility for the original contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not 
reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the 
initial criteria is dispositive of her appeal, we also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or an analysis of the evidence relating to 
her continuing to work in her area of expertise in the United States under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 22 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
20 Id. 
21 The 204 tier one museums comprise the top 16.6 percent of CM A-graded museums. 
22 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 