U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1 7 513 9 81 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 01, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a film and television director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences , arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a film and television director who has directed e isodes of rimetime television series 
In addition, she has 
written and directedL----------r------,..Jfilms. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
a bachelor of arts from The University and is a graduate of the.__ _______ _.'s I I and I I Program. She currently works in the United States in 0-1 
nonimmigrant status and provided evidence of her upcoming commitments to direct episodes ofD 
I 11 II I andl l among other series. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x). The Petitioner claims to meet eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria, relating to judging the work 
of others in her field. We agree. The record reflects that the Petitioner has served on judging panels 
for film festivals and film awards competitions and therefore supports the Director's determination 
that she satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other seven claimed criteria, which we will 
discuss below. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied only one of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204 .5 (h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.1 
The Petitioner has documented her receipt of the following awards for her short and feature films: 
•• c.,.[ ___ .....,I Award, presented b~ !Network (1999); 
I I Film Festival, Best of the Festival Winler /200 5); ~ 
• Film Festival Award Film (2005); 
t------..__ _______ _JFilm Festival, Award Winner(2005); 
Erner in Television Director Award, presented byl I Film and Television ..----.,._..i.;;;;=== • 
• 
• ~-----~Fil~ Festival,l~ ____ _.I Award~ ____________ _. 
(2012); and.--------, • I fl !Award," presented by._l ____ _.1(2016). 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that she was nominated for a.__ _____ -===--__,,Award 
for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in al I for an ~nisode off he0 series I I I lin 2017.2 We observe that a national Director's Guild~-___ _._Award of this nature 
would be sufficient to meet this criterion; however, a nomination for this award does not satisfy the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner's 2008 ~ !Emerging Television Director Award," was co-presented by the 
~ _ ____.I branch of the Director's Guild I I rather than by the national organization. The Petitioner 
did not provide supporting evidence to establish thatthis regionally granted, early career award gamers 
the national recognition oftheDirector'sGuildl bnnual industiy awards for which the Petitioner 
was subsequently nominated, or otheiwise establish the national or international recognition associated 
with this award. The description of the award states that is granted to an '"emerging I 
director" and included a two-month mentorship with an established television director and intensive 
industry coaching. The Petitioner generally asserts that Director's Guild! I awards are 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 The Petitioner's Internet Movie Database (IMDB) profile lists a second Director's Guildl I a ward nomination 
(specifically, fora~TeamAward") foranepisodeo~ I 2014, but she did not submit 
any additional evidence related to this nomination. 
3 
"equivalent" to Director's Guild I awards and otherwise "equal in stature and reputation," but 
has not submitted sufficient evidence to support this claim with respect to herl I award 
received in 2008. 
The Petitioner'~ !Award" was presented to her by th re ional 
chapter of the I I, a national union for.__ __ _. 
performers working in these industries. Although the record documents her receipt of the award, she has 
not addressed this award in her brief on appeal or in any letters in su ort of the petition. The record 
contains a copy of her award plague, a Wikipedia article abou screenshots from thd I 
website, and anl I press release about the 201 .__ ___ _. Awards. This evidence 
indicates that the award, first given in 2016, is intended to honor diversity in the industry and to "celebrate 
one individual and one company each year whose work demonstrate a commitment to inclusion on 
screen." The evidence does not fmiheraddress the criteria for granting the award or the scope of the 
awards, which appears to be limited to the I I chapter. Nor does the record include any 
media coverage of the Petitioner's receipt of the award that would assist in establishing whether it 
garnered publicity commensurate with a nationally recognized entertainment industry award. 
Accordingly, the evidence submitted is insufficient to demonstrate that the I I award is a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in television or motion picture directing. 
With respect to the Petitioner's film festival awards, the record is similarly lacking evidence that the 
awards she received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. Her I I Award" was accompanied by evidence that appears to relate to a different awards program 
called! I Awards. The Petitioner's awav...,.._._........., .......... ........,........_'+' her by the I I 
Network in 1999. The information provided re ardin Awards indicates that this award 
was first presented in 2000 and is overseen b .__ ___________________ ___,· c::J Therefore, this information does not appear to relate to her 1999 award. Similarly, while the 
Petitioner provided a certificate documenting herreceipt of an award at thel IFilm Festivai the 
record lacks any supporting evidence regarding this festival or the national or international recognition 
associated with this award. 
The Petitioner indicates in supporting letters that she received a 2004....._ _______ ___, Award at 
the 2004 Film Festival, which is described in the record as a festival dedicated to providing 
She did not provide '---------------------------------' documentary evidence of her receipt of this award or additional information regarding the festival or 
award. According to the Petitioner's IMDb profile, she received thel IA ward for Best Feature 
Film at thd I Film Festival for her film I I in 2005. The record includes a 
photograph of a trophy that appears to be a 2005 l I Award." However, she did not 
mention this award in her supporting letters, submit any additional evidence related to this award, and has 
not established that it is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field. 
Regarding thel _ IFilm Festival the Petitioner submitted a screenshot 
from the website] I which briefly describes the Award and the rules and terms of 
entry for the 22nd edition of the festival, indicating that it was .__ ____________ ___, I I" According to the information provided, the festival's award 
winner receives "an InkTip script listing to assist the winner in getting their script for their next film to 
producers." The record does not contain any other evidence related to this award and does not support a 
4 
determination that this festival'~._ ___ _.IAward is a nationally or internationally recognized prize for 
excellence. 
Finally, the Petitioner documented her receipt of al I Award in the.__ ______ _. 
I I category a~----------~ Film Festival, in 2012. She 
provided information about the festival and its 2020 entry requirements from the website Film Freeway, 
a Wikipedia aiiicle about the festival, and a 2017 article about the festival's 50th anniversary, published 
online by Houston Press. The information from Film Freeway describes! las '"one of the oldest 
and largest film and video competitions in the world, with morethan4,574categoryentries received from 
7 4 nations in 2020." The recordreflects that the festival has over 200 sub-categories, with approximately 
15-20% of all entries receiving awards across categories. Awards are based on scoring by a jury with a 
score cutoff for each level of award, which include the Grand Remi, special jury award, platinum, gold, 
silver, and bronze awards. The description of the festival indicates that the fe~tiva) is international in 
scope and that several well-known filmmakers received their very first awards a~ I 
While the festival appears to be well-established in the independent film industry, it bestows several 
hundred awards annually. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that every 
level of Remi Award in every category is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
The issue here is not the national or international scope of the competition, but rather whether the 
Petitioner's specific award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field. The record does not contain evidence of the nature or type ofrecognition the Petitioner 
received as a result of this award, such as, for example, media about the 2012 festival in which she 
participated, nor does it contain evidence of the nature and type of independent recognition that Remi 
award winners receive in general, outside of the festival itself. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. Although 
we acknowledge that the Petitioner is the recipient of several awards in her field which recognize the 
quality of her work, the evidence she submitted does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the individual '.s membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility under this criterion. In response to a request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner mentioned in her cover letter that she "is a member of a major industry guild and 
union who selected her for membership due to her high level of achievements and having reached certain 
milestones and benchmarks." The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence in support of her claim that she has one or more qualifying memberships in associations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her assertion that she satisfies this criterion but does not address the 
Director's determination that the record lacks evidence to support that claim. There are references in the 
record to the Petitioner's membership in the Director's Guild I I However, there is no primary 
evidence ofhermembershipin this oranyotherassociationinherfield. Noris there evidence to establish 
that she is a member of an association in her field which requires outstanding achievements ofits members 
5 
as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts, such as documentation of official 
membership requirements and member selection procedures for the Director's Guildl lor other 
associations. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must provide evidence of published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. Here, the Petitioner has consistently claimed that she "has been extensively featured in 
major newspapers, magazines and trade publications inl I' 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted articles from the websites wdtvpress.com, 
Indiewire.com, sheknows.com, blackincanada.com, caribbeantalesfestival.com, playbackonline.ca, 
the audienceawards.com, as well as various online reviews for television shows in which she was 
identified as the director of a particular episode or episodes. The Director determined that the articles 
from these sources did not satisfy this criterion because, while they mentioned the Petitioner, they 
were not about the Petitioner and her work. Because this required element of the criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii) was not met, the Director did not further evaluate this evidence to determine if the 
referenced articles included all required information ( author, date and title) or whether they appeared 
in qualifying professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director determined that some of the submitted articles are about the Petitioner and her work in 
the field, specifically referencing articles from the websites pennantmediagroup.com, 
megadiversities.com, wgsi.utoronto.ca, filmfatales.org, and notablelife.com. However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient supporting documentation to establish that these 
publications are professional or major trade publications or other major media, as claimed. 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes the same claims she made at the time of filing and in response to the 
Director's RFE, without identifying specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact 
for the appeal, or even referencing the Director's decision on this issue. Rather, the brief submitted 
on appeal repeats previous claims that the Petitioner "has been extensively featured in maJor 
newspapers, magazines and trade publications inl I' 
As the Petitioner has not specifically contested the Director's reasons for finding the submitted 
evidence to be deficient, we will not address every article here. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including evidence not expressly mentioned in the 
denial decision, and conclude that the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not establish that any of the submitted aiiicles satisfy all requirements set f mih at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a printout of an article titled·~-----------~ I I' from the website of the National Screen 
Institute (NSI) ~ I. The article contains a group photograph that includes the 
6 
Petitioner and her name is mentioned in the caption, but the article is not about her and she is not 
otherwise mentioned. Even if this could be considered a "professional or major trade publication" in 
the Petitioner's field, it would not satisfy this criterion. The Director mentioned that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence from an ABC television press website (wdtvpress.com/abc). This website 
published behind-the-scenes photographs taken on set during the filming of an episode of1 I 
~-------~ The Petitioner is identified in the captions accompanying the photographs, but 
there is no accompanying article about her, and therefore, this evidence does not satisfy the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Another article, titled.___~-------------r--------------........, 
is about al !television network's decision not to air 
1-------.----'' and the ensuing court battle over the show. The Petitioner was one of several 
television indus fi res contacted b the article's author who solicited her view on 
L---------1---J------.l' The aiiicle refers to her as "a rising star," mentions that she has directed 
r-"-'~~~~'----~=-----~=an=d~i=n=c=lu~d"'-"-ies a quote from her about I I 
However, the lengthy article, published online 
by Medium, is not about the Petitioner. 3 
The Petitioner submitted a second aiiicle from Medium, an interview with the Petitioner about the 
Netflix serid !published byl I While this article is about the Petitioner and 
her work as a director, it does not identify an author or include the full date of publication. Further, 
the aiiicle is not accompanied by sufficient evidence thatMedium, an open online publishingplatf01m, 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. We note that evidence of published material in 
major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to 
other circulation statistics. 4 The Petitioner submitted ranking data from Similar Web indicating that the 
websiteranked2 l 9th in the United States, but did notofferfurthersupportfora claim that this ranking 
qualifies the blogging platform as "other major media." 
The Petitioner provided circulation statistics and rankings for only two other T ublications. She 
provided a 2013 aiiicle published by notablelife.com, which is self-described as _ I I I covering "all aspects of millennial life." 
The article, an interview with the Petitioner about her career as a director, does not identify the author. 
Further, the Similar Web ranking for this publication i~ lis 43,059 and the Petitioner has not 
explained how this qualifies the magazine as a major medium. Therefore, while the aiiicle is about 
the Petitioner and her work, the evidence submitted regarding this publication's circulation and 
intended audience does not establish that it qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. 
The Petitioner also provided a traffic overview and rankings from SimilarWeb for the website 
Indiewire.com. The accompanying article from Indiewire, an online publication covering film and 
television, was written in 2015 regarding about an upcoming! I 
3 The author includes a note in the introduction of his article, indicating that a shorter version of the piece had been 
published byth~ ~ Globe andMail. The record does not include a copy of that version and it is unknown 
if the brief paragraph that mentions the Petitioner was included. 
4 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix. 
7 
television series called~-------~ The Petitioner's name is mentioned at the end of the 
article as one of four individuals "rounding out the directing team," but the article is not about her and 
would not satisfy this criterion even if we determined that the article appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
As noted by the Director, while the record includes other articles that are about the Petitioner and 
related to her work as a director, none of them were accompanied by the required evidence of 
publication in rofessional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner and 
anothe filmmaker are featured in a rint article titled I I 
'-----------------------' 'but the evidence does not clearly identify the 
name and full date of the publication or contain any inf mmation about the publication, such as its 
intended audience and circulation statistics. A profile about the Petitioner and her career was 
published by the website of the Women and Gender Studies Institute of the University I I I ~, the Petitioner's alma mater, but the article is not accompanied by evidence that 
this website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
We have reviewed all the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and conclude that it does not 
support the Petitioner's claim that she "has been extensively featured in major newspapers, magazines 
and trade publications inl I' The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific. scholarly. artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to meet this criterion. In a cover letter accompanying her response 
to the RFE, counsel confusingly referred to "compulsive and overwhelming evidence tha~ I 
[sic]" meets this criterion. Other than mentioning that the Petitioner has made "significant contributions . 
to high-profile productions," the letter did not elaborate on how the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. For 
ex amp le, it did not identify her original contributions and their major significance or point to specific 
evidence she was submitting in support of this criterion. 
At the time of filing and in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted severnl letters from colleagues 
in the film and television industry who praise her technical skills and artistic talents as a director and note 
the high profile nature of some of her netwotk television projects. The Petitioner offered these letters as 
"other qualifying evidence of her extraordinary achievement," rather than submitting them in supp01t of 
the "original contributions" evidentiary criterion. The Director nevertheless evaluated the testimonial 
evidence, noting that the letters from experts in her field did not establish either her specific original 
contributions to the field or the major significance of such contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she satisfies this criterion, repeating her claim that the record 
contains "compulsive and overwhelming evidence" related to this and all other claimed criteria. 
8 
However,her brief does not further elaborate on this claim, makes no additional reference to this criterion, 
and does not acknowledge or address the Director's reasons for finding the submitted evidence to be 
insufficient to meet her burden of proof. Therefore, the Petitioner has effectively abandoned this issue 
and we need not further address it. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); see alsoHristovv. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731, 2011WL4711885, at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) 
(plaintiff's claims found to be abandoned when not raised on appeal to the AAO); see also Greenbriar, 
Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references to 
issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence from individuals who attest to 
her talent, comment on the quality of her work on specific projects, and state that she is in demand as 
an episodic television director. They do not explain the major significance of specific artistic 
contributions that the Petitioner has made or elaborate on how such contributions are "original." 
Having a unique or special skill set as a director is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of­
itself. The record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
talents to impact the field at a significant level, which she has not shown. For example, the Petitioner's 
letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying her original contributions and 
explaining the unusual influence her work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
aiiiculate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 However, the letters submitted here do not demonstrate the Petitioner's 
impact beyond the individual television episodes she directed. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that she has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that her role was ( 1) leading or critical; 
(2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or establishment 
has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
In claiming eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner describes the many responsibilities of a 
television director, noting that the director "is a key, major role in the production of any feature film 
or television production," and that the position is "key, vital and important to every production studio 
and television network." She asserted that she has served in a "critical lead position" with 
distinguished film and television production companies as a result of her work as a director on 
television shows for ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, CW Network, Netflix, Warner Bros. Television,Amblin 
5 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 
Entertainment and others. Her initial evidence in support of this criterion included information about 
NBC, BBC America, and Warner Bros. Television Group. 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted did not establish how serving in a leading or 
critical role for an episode of a television show equates to serving in a leading or critical role for a 
television network, studio, or production company as a whole. Accordingly, he concluded that the 
Petitioner did not meet her burden to demonstrate that she has served in a qualifying role for an 
"organization or establishment" with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her assertion that episodic television directors provide "a critical and 
leading function to the overall production," and serve in a role that is "key, vital and important to every 
production studio and television network." 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments," 
and the Petitioner has not established that any of the television shows she has directed qualify as 
organizations or establishments. Therefore, even if we detemnned that she held a leading or critical mle 
for a distinguished production (i.e., one or more episodes of a successful television series) additional 
evidence would be required to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The testimonial evidence in the record includes several letters from television studio and production 
company executives. These letters, however, do not establish that the Petitioner held a leading or 
critical osition for these organizations. 6 I I Chair and CEO ofl I media company 
,.__ __________ L...::..co=nfirms that the Petitioner directed a total of six episodes of the 
~-----------~ series,,__ _______ __.He describes the show and praises the 
Petitioner's ability to understand and "visualize our show's character driven comedy and unique cultural 
perspective." A letter from lofl I Television praises the Petitioner's work on 
two episodes o~ landher"exceptional talent as a director and storyteller," an~ I 
President of I ~ states that he is an "enormous fan" qf..tb..e_fetitioner' s work and soeaks 
highly of the "special touch" she brought to individual episodes ofl___j;howsl IJ ] and I I 
While the authors of these and other letters uniformly offer high praise for the Petitioner and her artistic 
work as a director, they do not comment on whether or how her role has been critical in a way that 
contributed to the success of a production company, television network, or other organization or 
establishment or how her role as an episodic director has otherwise been commensurate with perfonnmg 
in a leading or critical role with their respective organizations. Other letters in the record are from 
executiveproducersot1 ll 1,1 II Ian~ I 
and highlight the Petitioner's work on individual episodes of these shows; however, the producers do not 
speak to the Petitioner's leading or critical role for the production companies that develop the shows or 
the networks that air them. Again, a given individual's role must be leading or critical for a particular 
organization or establishment, rather than for one project, event, or assignment within that organization 
or establishment. 
6 See USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix (statingthatletters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading orcriticalrole can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the 
letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was lea ding or critic a 1). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she has performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 7 
To document her past earnings, the Petitioner provided her 2019 IRS Forms W-2 and 1099, a copy of 
her 2018 U.S. nonresident tax return, copies of deal memos and evidence of payments she received 
for her work, and letters from the talent agency that represents her, which include additional details 
regarding her earnings from specific projects. The Petitioner's tax documents reflect that she had over 
$404,000 in earnings from her work as a television director in 2019. 
In a cover letter submitted with her initial evidence, the Petitioner cited to data from Payscale and 
Salary.com, noting that her annual earnings in 2019 were significantly higher than the average and 
high salaries for television directors reported by these two sources. 8 However, she also submitted 
data from other sources indicating that salaries for television directors working in southern California 
are significantly higher than the general nationwide figures provided by Payscale and Salary.com. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted Occupational Employment and Wage data for "Producers and 
Directors" from the Department of Labor's Occupational Employment Statistics website. This data, 
which was from May 2016, shows a mean annual wage of $93,840 and a 90th percentile wage of 
$189,870. The mean annual wage in thd I metropolitan area where the Petitioner wotks is 
$141,040, 50.3% higher than the national average. The evidence submitted does not include data on 
what constitutes a "high" salary inl las a point of comparison. Demonstrating that she earns 
above the average wage in thd I area is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Fmiher, because the Petitioner provided evidence that she works on television productions that pay 
directors based on rates set by the Directors Guild of America (DGA), a more relevant point of 
comparison is the DGA's Minimum Salary Schedule, a copy of which was submitted with the initial 
filing. 9 According to this schedule, directors (in 2017-2018) were required to be paid at least $45,981 
for a one-hour network prime time television episode, for a guaranteed period of 15 days' work, with 
$3,065 per day in compensation for any additional days of work. 
7 Sec 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2 appendix(notingthatit is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and 
position-appropriate evidence to establish that a sa laryis relatively high). 
8 The data sheprovided fromSala1y.comreporteda mediansalatyof$33,465 forthepositionof"Director- Stage, Motion 
Pictures, Television" and a 90th percentile salary of $47,660. The information provided from Payscale indicates a 
"television director" median salaiy of$65A45 and a 90th percentile salary of$1 70,000. 
9 The Petitioner submitted the DGA's Minimum Salary Schedule valid from July 2017 through June 2018. The evidence 
in the record covers a multi-yearperiod and reflects that these rates undergo an incremental increase on an annual basis. 
We note that the rate for a one-hour network TV episode for the period July I, 2020 through June 30, 2021 was set at 
$48,318, with a daily rate of $3211. See Website of Director's Guild of America, "Basic Agreement Directors," 
https://dga.org/Contracts/Rates-2020-to-2021/BA-FLTTA-Rate-Card/Directors-2020-to-2021.aspx (last visited on June 
30, 2021 ). The same source reports a $46,671 rate for2018-2019 and a $47,371 rate for2019-2020. 
11 
While directors working on DGA-scale television productions may generally earn higher salaries 
compared to directors working on other types of projects, it is reasonable to compare the Petitioner's 
earnings to that of other professional television directors whose pay is also based on this minimum 
salary schedule. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N .D. Ill. 1996)( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salruy 
of other NHL defensemen). 
Based on the evidence of payments she received for individual projects, the Petitioner has not 
established that she has commanded a high salary compared to other similarly employed television 
directors. She submitted three deal memos that she signed in 2017 for episodes o~ II I 
an~ I Each one reflected that she received the minimum salary set forth in the DGA salary 
schedule. A letter from her agent.I l regarding her projected 
earnings (based on one closed deal and seven others in negotiation) indicates that she was expected to 
earn $47,371 per episode for upcoming work in 2020 and 2021. Overall, the initial evidence indicated 
that the Petitioner has earned, and would continue to earn, the minimum salary set by the DGA for 
each of her projects. 
In response to the RFE, the Director submitted two letters froml I ofi J both dated 
July 21, 2020, which a~the Petitioner's earnings relative to the DGA minimum salary. In one 
letter, she indicates thaL_J can confirm that the Petitioner "has been paid above industry standard" 
and states: 
The typical compensation for a DGA hour long drama is $46,371.00 and [the Petilionerl I 
has been P.aid well above that on several shows between 2018 and 2020, including 
c=:::Jfo~ 1($75,447).I lforp<$6o,oo3),c=J 
forC] ($65,33 7),1 I forl 1{$60,597) and I forl_J 
($56,845). 
In the second letterJ I states that "for a Director in the US, the minimum episodic rate for 
an hour-long television series is $46,671 (USD)."I I listed fees the Petitioner earned for 
eight network television episodes in 2018. These fees ranged from ,46,r 1 p...$..6..0..5.. According to 
I I the Petitioner earned $50,666 for directing episode ofL___j but the initial 
evidence, which included the Petitioner's deal memo forth is episode, indicated that she was contracted 
to receive DGA scale fora basic cable episode ($33,775 for 14 days, plus $2,413/day beyond 14 days). 
While the Petitioner may have been paid for extra days of shooting, there is insufficient evidence to 
establish that she was paid well above the DGA scale for this episode. The record does not contain 
copies of contracts or deal memos for the other 2018 projects listed i~ l's letter. 
I I also lists the Petitioner's earnings fer episode for various projects in 2019, indicating 
rates that ranr from $44,383 for an episode of I to $150,895 for two episodes of I The record does not contain the Petitioner's deal mc;mos for these projects completed 
in 2019 but does include other documentation of payments she received for some of this work. For 
example, while the letters from I indicate that the Petitioner commanded a per episode rate of 
12 
approximately $75,000 forl , I other evidence indicates that she received the DGA rate of 
$46,671 per episode, along with $3111 per day for 17 days of extra shooting on the two episodes. 
The letter froni O lalso states that the Petitioner's earnings are "more than double the 
Standard I I TV /Director's Guildl l rate" and place her among the top income earners 
in television inl I However, given that the Petitioner is working on U.S. television projects that 
pay according to the DGA rate, the record does not establish that the Director's Guild I I rates 
provide a relevant point of comparison. 
Finally, while the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has received additional remuneration 
for some of her work in the form of residual payments, she has not provided supporting evidence to 
establish that such remuneration has been "significantly high" when compared to the residual 
payments that others in the field receive, or otherwise shown thathertotal remuneration is significantly 
high. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner satisfies the criterion related to judging at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
but for the reasons discussed above, did not submit evidence that satisfies the criteria relating to 
awards, memberships, published material, original contributions, leading or critical roles, and high 
salary. Although she claims on appeal that she can also satisfy the criterion relating to commercial 
success in the perfmmingarts at8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), we need not reach this additional issue. As 
the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve this criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessaryto the results they reach), see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USeIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
users from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, users is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 e.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 6)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'/, 19 I&N Dec. 593,597 (eomm'r 1988);see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090(6their.1987). 
13 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that satisfy at least three of the ten criteria. Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not supp01i a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner is in the latter category. The evidence establishes that the Petitioner has built a 
successful career in a competitive industry, has earned the high regard of her industry colleagues, and 
has enjoyed an increase in demand for her services in the years leading up to the filing of the petition. 
However, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner, as of the date of filing, 
has garnered the required sustained national or international acclaim in her field, and that she is one 
of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 1, 2024 In Re: 31658305 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a biomedical engineer researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed this petition in February 2023. He is presently engaged as a staff scientist 
specializing in biomedical research at a university located in Missouri and intends to continue pursuing 
his career there. In 2019, he obtained a Ph.D. in biochemical engineering from a university abroad. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of those 
criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scientific accomplishments of major significance 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Before the 
Director and on appeal the Petitioner does not assert, nor does the record establish that he has met any 
other criteria. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding the record did not demonstrate he warranted favorable 
consideration in a final merits determination. As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial 
evidence, we will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by 
a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues the Director's decision "presented a nonspecific, boilerplate 
disclaimer that the [ final merits determination] was based on the 'totality of the record,' the structure 
of the final merits determination suggests otherwise." The Petitioner alleges that since the Director 
organized his final merits discussion of the evidence in a sequential order similar to when he reviewed 
the evidence to determine that he met the plain language of three criteria, that he erred by "isolat[ing] 
that evidence and did not collectively consider it in determining that he did not meet the regulatory 
definitions for extraordinary ability at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). Specifically, the Petitioner contends 
the Director failed to correctly analyze his testimonial letters, publication record, citation history, 
notable citations by others, patent applications, research funding, his academic and experiential 
credentials, and his peer review of the work of others. 
We have reviewed the Petitioner's initial submission, his response and additional documentation from 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Director's decision, the Petitioner's appeal brief: 
including the testimonial letters that the Director considered in denying the petition which were 
resubmitted on appeal. We do not concur with the Petitioner's contentions, and we adopt and affirm 
the Director's decision. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. 
INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice ofadopting and affirming the decision 
below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); 
Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate 
adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized 
consideration " to the case). Here, the decision reflects the Director thoroughly reviewed the record 
and correctly and sufficiently articulated reasons why the Petitioner's evidence and assertions of 
eligibility fell short in demonstrating that he meets the requirements for classification as an individual 
with extraordinary ability in the sciences. 
For example, relating to the Petitioner's service as a peer reviewer of the work of other scientists in 
the final merits determination, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is appropriate to 
determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive 
classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 1 In evaluating this evidence, the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner had performed work as a peer reviewer of manuscripts submitted by 
other scientists to scientific journals from 2020 to 2022 but explained that the record did not 
sufficiently show how his judging experiences compared to others performing similar work, or how 
the quantity or quality of his review work stands out from his peers. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not specifically address the Director's concerns about the probative value of his peer review evidence 
in the denial. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
Rather, he asserts that he is not required to show that his peer review work "alone" must meet the 
extraordinary ability definition but that such evidence must be considered along with the other 
evidence in totality. Based on our review ofthe evidence and the Director's decision we conclude that 
the Director thoroughly examined and considered the submitted documentation; he discussed various 
aspects of the evidence individually, but collectively considered the entire record to ultimately 
determine that the Petitioner is not an individual of extraordinary ability. To determine whether a 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
3 
petitioner has established eligibility for a requested benefit by a preponderance ofthe evidence, USCIS 
must examine each piece of evidence -both individually and within the context of the entire record -
for relevance, probative value, and credibility. Matter ofChawathe, supra. While the Petitioner may 
disagree with aspects of the Director's analysis of the evidence, he has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that the Director failed to consider the record under the preponderance of the evidence standard, or 
that he otherwise erred as a matter of law or policy in denying the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ajf'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the upper echelon in his 
field. The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-R-R-L-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that she had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability in the final 
merits analysis. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist. As she has not established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for awards, published 
material, judging the work of others, scholarly articles, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (viii), respectively. On appeal, we find that the evidence in the 
record sufficiently demonstrates that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, including published 
material, judging, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (viii). 
Specifically, the record reflects that the Petitioner has had articles published about her relating to her 
work in the field of journalism in professional or major trade or major media publications, she has 
participated as a judge of the work of others as a juror in selecting the recipients of numerous 
journalism awards, and she has performed a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation for her role on the I I television program, "A Day with [the 
Petitioner]." As she has satisfied three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we will 
evaluate the totality of her documentary evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below.1 
1 We will address the evidence in the record pertaining to awards and scholarly articles in the final merits analysis. 
2 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that she meets the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether 
she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final 
merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence 
to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established her eligibility. 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is a journalist who has had a successful career as a radio 
and television host. She received her bachelor's degree in social communications from the University 
ofl I in Venezuela, and was employed there from 1979 to 2009 while furthering her career in 
journalism. 
The record contains evidence of the awards the Petitioner has received, including the Municipal 
Journalism Award in 1989,2 the Order I I in 1997, the 
Orderl I in 1999, the Order in 2001, the Honorable Mention of the 
Municipal Journalism Award! I in 2003, and the Orderl lin 
2005. The record reflects tliat the maJonty of these awards come from the city of I I 
However, it lacks evidence demonstrating these awards signify recognition outside that local region, 
and thus are not indicative of national or international acclaim as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Additionally, the Petitioner was awarded the Orderl I in 1997, which she claims 
is a nationally recognized award that was given by the president of Venezuela. The record contains 
only a certificate for this award, and lacks documentation supporting the Petitioner's assertions of its 
national importance. Furthermore, she has not submitted evidence, such as media coverage, 
establishing that she received national or international acclaim for this or any of the other awards she 
has claimed. 
The Petitioner has submitted a number of articles published about her and her work, spanning from 
2001 until 2014. Most articles appeared in regional publications, such as Estampas or Panorama, and 
the Petitioner does not submit evidence to demonstrate that these publications convey national or 
international acclaim. A 2011 article appeared in the newspaper, Version Final, but the record contains 
inconsistent documentation of the publication's circulation and therefore does not establish the 
requisite level of acclaim or recognition. 3 In contrast, the Petitioner has submitted an article that 
appeared in 2006 in El Nacional, which the record identifies as a major Venezuelan newspaper, 
2 The Director indicated that the Petitioner received an award in 1998. This appears to be a scrivener's error as the record 
reflects that she received an award in 1989. 
3 The record contains a document claiming Version Final has over 100,000 daily readers, but does not reveal the source of 
its information. In contrast, it also contains documentation from a media certifying committee indicating that in 2011, 
Version Final had a circulation of 18.345. The record does not contain a full English translation, as required under 8 
C.F.R. § I 03.2(b)(3), nor does it contain evidence to overcome the discrepancies between these documents. 
3 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
regarding her work on her television show. 4 It quotes the Petitioner, briefly discussing the history of 
her television show and identifying plans to bring the show to an international audience after nine 
years of only being broadcast at a regional level. While the article recognizes the success of her local 
program and identifies hopes for expansion, the Petitioner has not established that it indicates national 
or international acclaim for her work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director should have recognized the media coverage about 
her through 2014. She submitted an article from that year that was published in El Venezolano, a 
Florida newspaper, discussing her thoughts on journalism and her career in Venezuela. However, the 
record does not demonstrate this article has resulted in national or international acclaim, as the 
circulation information provided shows the newspaper is circulated to 20,000 individuals inl I 
The Petitioner has not explained how this represents acclaim at a national or international level. 
The record contains evidence about the Petitioner's role in judging the work of others as a juror for 
awards given br the II C ,I in Venezuela. I I vice 
president of the identifies seven awards in which the Petitioner participated as a juror between 
1979 and 2009. 5 Beyond their names, no information is provided about the awards, including their 
dates or time period in which the Petitioner acted as a judge. Of the seven awards, only one is 
identified as a national journalism award, as the rest named as regional or municipal awards. The 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence about the awards to establish their significance or that of her 
judging. I I does not identify the criteria for her selection in his letter, nor do the~ 
regulations in the record provide any requirements for jury selection, beyond mandating that there be 
at least one representative from the National School of Journalists. As such, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner's selection as a juror marks that she has received the requisite acclaim and 
recognition in her field. 
Beyond her work wi!h.17 the record also contains a letter from~ _________ __. a dean 
at the University of~ating that the Petitioner "served as tutor, advisor and jury for the contest 
of opposition and merits presented by those professionals admitted to our institution as teachers and 
of the credentials and works of the professors aspiring to ascend into the ranks of [ faculty and research 
staff]."~------~ also indicates that the Petitioner has been a juror for postgraduate theses 
in one of the university's master's programs, and identifies five papers she reviewed. The Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence demonstrating that she has received any national or international acclaim 
for her work with the university, or that her position there, which began immediately after receiving 
her undergraduate degree, constitutes recognition of her achievements by the field. 
4 The Petitioner indicates that she was featured in another article from El Nacional in 2005. She submitted a photocopy 
of that article along with a letter from a translator who notes that the document is illegible and cannot be translated. The 
Petitioner provided a letter from~~--------- president and editor of El Nacional, indicating that she appeared 
in an article profiling Venezuelan women. However, the letter lacks sufficient information to determine what level of 
acclaim the article afforded the Petitioner. 
5 In support of her judging claim, the Petitioner has also submitted an article about the government ofLJ convening the 
2012 regional journalism award. However, the translation of the document is incomplete and therefore cannot be 
considered. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). We note, however, that the translation provided does not reference the Petitioner 
or indicate any relationship between her and this award. 
4 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
The Petitioner published two scholarly articles in the Analisis Financiero y Economico (AFE) 
magazine in 2004, as well as authored two books that were published in 2010, but the record lacks 
evidence demonstratinr that she received acclaim as a result. The record contains a letter from ~--------~! editor for AFE, stating that the Petitioner was one of its columnists "writing 
and coordinating her journalistic columns I I and I I with [the Petitioner],' which 
analyzed and commented on Venezuelan socio-economic events." The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence demonstrating her receipt of national or international recognition originating from her 
articles. 
The Petitioner has authored two books that were ublished in 2010 entitled 
I I andL--------~-~-------' In a letter 
froml I the former principal of the University of he states that the Petitioner 
"has made herself a name as an expert in matters of Social Communication, Advertising and Public 
Relations, but above all, in matters inherent to~~------~---....,,.. .... " He indicates 
that the Petitioner's students, her colleagues, academic institutions, and companies request her advice, 
but the record lacks corroborating evidence to support this claim. Although he states that her books 
"bring us an educational model of corporate social responsibility and public relations applicable to 
Master's degrees, doctorate programs or specializations on journalism, management, economics, 
business and business relationships whose professionals should have an exact knowledge of these 
concepts," the record does not demonstrate that any academic institution has incorporated her texts, or 
that she has received acclaim or recognition from the field for her work. 
Regarding the evidence the Petitioner submitted about her leading or critical role, the record reflects 
that she was the host of the program I I for "Tele~ision a Color, I I I I inl !Venezuela beginning in 1996. I ~he human resources 
manager for the organization, states that the Petitioner's innovative shows helped retain viewers and 
generate new audiences for the company's programming. He states that she broke ratings and 
contributed "to position [the channel] as one of the best TV channels in Venezuela." As discussed 
above, the articles about and awards for the Petitioner's work with this program and channel document 
its significance at the municipal and regional level, but do not establish the requisite national or 
international acclaim. 
Under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), a petitioner must demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim 
and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. The Director held that 
the Petitioner had not sustained her recognition, noting the lapse in time between the recognition she 
received and the filing of the petition. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the regulations do not 
indicate how recent an individual's acclaim must be to meet the terms "sustained national or 
international acclaim." She cites a USCIS policy memorandum which states that "sustained" acclaim 
means that it must be maintained over a long period of time that there is no definitive time frame for 
what constitutes "sustained" acclaim. 6 
Here, after review of the record in its entirety, we find that the Petitioner has not established that she 
has received acclaim at a national or international level, and thus need not address the issue of 
sustainment. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 14. 
5 
Matter of R-R-R-L-
III. CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The record does not demonstrate that she has garnered national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an 
independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-R-R-L-, ID# 2991511 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a marketing and media relations consultant, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, and a subsequent motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was serving as Director of Marketing and Media Relations forl I ~-~I Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the 
published material and leading or critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii), 
respectively. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the awards, original 
contributions, and display criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (vii), respectively. Upon 
review, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
"Most As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner i,resented five awards received b 
Innovative" I J at the "2014 ," "Best Design" 
......._ _____________ at the "2011 ," Robb Report magazine's 
2 
Matter of C-C-
"Best of the Best 20 l lL __ ---f"" _______ __.__'_.' .........,u.......L.........,......._-1..._---, _______ ____J 
category at the 2011 Internationa..___~~~-----~~-------" and "Best Asian Built 
~----.--------~ at the 2014' Awards, jointly organized by Asia-Pac[fic 
Boating and China Boating magazines." 
The Director noted that the above awards were "won by al ~" and that they were "given 
for product design, and not for marketin ."1 For example, the record includes an article in Robb 
Report's "Best of the Best 2011 's ecial issue edition stating that the I ~as 
designed byl land built by.__ ____ _.. Ibis artjc)t does not mention the Petitioner or 
her marketing work. The evidence does not show thatl s awards for its design, innovation, 
and building of various types of1 I were mostly attributable to her work or that those awards were 
in the marketing and media relations field. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive these awards; rather, her employer garnered them. The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the 
awards or prizes, as opposed to her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 Furthermore, the 
information about the awards from the presenting organizations and I I is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that they are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. 
In addition, while the Petitioner contends thatl I received "Best I lof the Year 2013 by 
I IAwardsJ I China," the evidence does not show that her company 
actually won this award. Instead, the record includes a I I 2013 I lpress release 
distributed bv PR Newswire stating: I I 2013 finalist for 
i----...------'l 2013" ( emphasis added). The Petitioner also provided a list of the "2Q.Llj 
wards Winners" from "SPH Magazines Blog," but this list does not identifyL I as 
having won either of the aforementioned awards. Moreover, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that the company's selection as a finalist constitutes a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the Petitioner's field. Nor does the 
evidence show thatl Is standing as a finalist was mostly attributable to her work. For the 
above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 The Petitioner has identified her field of endeavor as "marketing and media relations." 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
Matter of C-C-
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record includes a 2016 article about the Petitioner, entitled '1._ _________ __. 
.__ ________ ____. in Canada.GreekReporter.com. In addition, she provided information about 
GreekReporter.com from its website. This information states that GreekReporter.com operates 
"different local portals" such as '1 I USA, Australia, Canada, Europe, World, Greece" 
reaching an "audience of more than 4 million." Regarding GreekReporter.com's claimed readership, 
USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO, aff'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). The record also includes a Wikipedia entry stating that 
Greek Reporter is a news organization that operates an "online portal consisting of a collection of 
internet news web sites for Greek people and people of Greek descent who live and work in and outside 
Greece." The Petitioner, however, has not presented comparative statistics or other evidence 
indicating that Greek Reporter's Canadian website, Canada.GreekReporter.com, has a readership 
elevating it to major media relative to other news publications. 
The Petitioner also presented various magazine articles from Yates, Yachts Russia, Invictus, Design 
Bureau, Inside Marine, Argos Yachts, and MegaYacht News, but these articles only mention her in 
passing or briefly quote her discussing information about her employer and it yachts. This regulatory 
criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about her do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Furthermore, the Petitioner has 
not presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that the aforementioned magazines' 
readership elevates them to major media relative to other publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that she hosted various 1 I Videos" 
that were broadcast weekly via Y ouTube and Twitter. The record includes information from I I I I stating: I I with host [the Petitioner], is a weekly news show recapping the world's 
top trending international headlines. . . . Great for people on the go, the show runs 5-7 minutes, and tells 
you all you need to know to sound 'in-the-know' at your next dinner party or social gathering." The 
evidence indicates that these videos covered the world's top trending international headlines and were not 
about the Petitioner. Nor has she demonstrated thatl lis a form of major media. The Petitioner 
has not established therefore that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that she revolutionized the presentation of yachts at industry exhibitions through 
ex eriential marketing. She contends that her booth exhibitions recreated the experience ofl I 
.___-+-in_c_l~uding special visual effects and music, and that "[h ]er approach was immediately copied by 
4 
Matter of C-C-
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner provided letters of support discussing her creativity in 
delivering effective I I displays. 4 However, as discussed below, these letters do not offer 
sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, 
to demonstrate the nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field 
that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, I I, president of~-----------~ stated: "Transforming 
the traditional exhibition space into an experiential landscar for potential owners, [the Petitioner] 
shook up the formerly conservative, fuddy duddyl _ community and pushed the exhibition 
industry into the 21st century in terms of creative progressiveness and cutting edge artistic styling." 
He further indicated that "[a] side from having shared her vision for I I design, a style 
which has been adopted by many ofc=]s competitors the Petitioner's] artistic expression and 
marketing genius is vividly on displa at each and ever global showcase." Similarly, I I Director of Sales for~-------~' a company that produces! I 
shows in Florida, contended that the Petitioner "quickly set a new bar amongst!, !manufacturers 
and brokers, introducing a new global standard forl !displays, and com[er]ing the arena of 
'experiential marketing."' I I and I !however, do not provide specific examples 
of how the Petitioner's experiential marketing approaches have widely affected the industry or have 
otherwise risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from~------~ President ofl I I la cloud solutions and information technology company. 5 He asserted that the Petitioner led 
"not onl)'LJ but was a forerunner for the whol~ I industry in recognizing that platforms that 
display video content offer multiple layers of engagement. ... This ultimately assisted in the meteoric 
rise thatc=Jrealized .... " The record, however, does not contain sufficient evidence showing that 
the Petitioner's multi-media strategies had a meaningful impact to the overall field beyondl I 
I I The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original contributions 
be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting her employer. See Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she 
did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient evidence demonstrating 
that her work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered eacP-h-=on=e""'". ----, 
4._ ____ ~boted that he previously served as Chief Technology Officer for._l ---~ 
5 
Matter of C-C-
The Petitioner initially asserted that her marketing displays and promotional booths at various boat 
shows meet this criterion. The record indicates that the design and craftsmanship of1 I was 
on display at these commercial boat shows. The language of this criterion specifically requires display 
of the Petitioner's work at "artistic exhibitions or showcases" (emphasis added). Here, the evidence 
does not demonstrate that the work on display was her work product, nor that these commercial boat 
shows were "artistic" in nature. 6 Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on comparable evidence under 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, she asserts that her "preparation of the booths, 
promotional materials, [and] organizing presentations" at boat shows should be considered as 
comparable evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the 
listed criteria do not readily apply to her occupation. A petitioner should explain why she has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
as well as why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 7 
In this case, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily 
apply to her occupation. She has not asserted or demonstrated that she cannot offer evidence that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to meet more than 
three criteria. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that marketing and media relations consultants 
cannot present evidence relating to the other regulatory criteria. For these reasons, the Petitioner has 
not established that she is eligible to meet this criterion through the submission of comparable 
evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The evidence shows that as Director of Marketing and Media Relations forl I the Petitioner 
has performed in a critical role for a distinguished organization. Accordingly, the record supports the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9-10. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 
Matter of C-C-
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of C-C-, ID# 3629500 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-A-A-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. After a complete review of the Petitioner's arguments 
and evidence submitted, we dismissed the appeal, concluding that he had not established that he meets 
at least three criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider our previous decision. 
Upon de nova review, we will deny the motion to reopen and the motion to reconsider. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of S-A-A-E-, ID# 1232896 (AAO June 15, 2018). 
Matter of S-A-A-E-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In an addendum to his motion, dated June 18, 2018, the 
Petitioner states: 
The Service's failure to review and evaluate the three additional regulatory areas under 
8 CFR 204.5(h)(3) to include 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3)(iv); and 8 CFR 
204.5(h)(3)(vi) that were addressed in the Petitioner's response to the Request for 
Evidence establishes that the decision was based on an incorrect application of Service 
policy under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In the factual background section of his motion brief: he repeats his claim that our decision issued on 
June 15, 2018, failed to address the three criteria identified above, relating to published material about 
2 
Matter of S-A-A-E-
him, his experience judging the work of others, and scholarly articles he has written. The Petitioner 
does not identify any other errors in our prior decision. 
Review of the record does not support the Petitioner's assertions. Our prior decision specifically 
addressed the eligibility criteria identified in his motion. We found that he failed to identify any 
published material about him to support his claim to eligibility. We also determined that the 
Petitioner's work as an auditor and accountant did not satisfy the regulatory requirements for the 
judging criterion. Finally, due to the lack of properly certified translations and missing publication 
evidence, we held that the Petitioner had not met the scholarly articles criterion. 
As we did address the criteria the Petitioner claims we overlooked and he does not identify any other 
errors, he has, therefore, not established that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in 
the record. Therefore, the motion to reconsider is denied. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). On motion, the Petitioner resubmits evidence he had previously provided in support of 
the earlier motion on the Director's decision. Upon review of the record in its totality, the Petitioner 
has not presented either new facts or evidence in support of his eligibility for the classification. As 
such, he has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reconsider is denied as the Petitioner has not asserted that our prior decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy. The motion to reopen is denied because the Petitioner 
has not submitted new facts or evidence in support of the motion. 
The motions will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of S-A-A-E-, ID# 3289321 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-H-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she met only one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of G-H-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion for participation as a 
judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) but that she did not meet the criteria for 
awards, published material, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii), 
respectively. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets at least three criteria and that she qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record of proceedings, 
and we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated that she meets the criteria for awards, 
published material, judging, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), and 
(viii). In addition, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that she has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
indicating that she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3).1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
2 
Matter of G-H-C-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not provided evidence of national or international media 
coverage through major trade publications or other major media to establish that the awards she 
received were nationally or internationally recognized. Here, we clarify that requiring such a level of 
media coverage is beyond the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which 
requires that the prizes or awards are given for excellence in the field and that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized. While media coverage is one type of evidence that may establish whether 
the prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized, this is not a specific requirement of 
the regulation and exceeds the scope of this criterion. 2 
The record reflects that thp...E.eti.\:ioner received first place for violin at the 2012 I I 
International Competition inL__J The record contains an article published in Asia Economic Daily 
that discusses the Petitioner's first place award at this competition, statinf that it "was first held in 
1991 to commemorate the Austrian 'master of violin violinist I a violin and viola concert 
and competition." The Petitioner has submitted documentation from the website for the World 
Federation of International Music Competitions which provides the details of the competition. The 
record also contains evidence that establishes the prominence of the jurors in the field. 
In addition, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner won second place in the 2010 ~I -----~ 
International Violin Competition in I I Italy. An article from www.teatro.it describes this as a 
prestigious competition judged by internationally renowned violinists, indicating that the 2010 
competition included 64 violinists from 25 countries. Accordingly, based on the international structure 
of these competitions, the distinguished judges involved, and the number of competitors from around 
the world, the record reflects that the Petitioner's prizes from these competitions represent nationally 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such 
evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that she met this criterion, noting that the 
articles in the record merely announced her winning competitions and the evidence submitted does 
not establish the publications as major media. Here, we note that the record contains an article 
published in Asia Economic Daily about the Petitioner that discusses her background in the field and 
the piece she played in receiving the first place award at thel !International Competition. 
This article also discusses the awards she received at other international music competitions. 
2 The Director noted that the translation certifications that the Petitioner initially submitted were not certified as "complete" 
under 8 C .F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3) and then in response to his request for evidence that the certificates of translation do not 
identify the original document. Here, we find that the translations of the documents discussed in this decision comply with 
this regulation. 
3 
Matter of G-H-C-
Accordingly, this demonstrates that the article is about her, relating to her work in the field. The record 
contains circulation details of this publication and its ranking among websites in South Korea, 
indicating, together with the evidence of its viewership, that it constitutes major media. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specialization for which class[fication is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. We aree. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served as a judge at the annual I Concerto Competition, evaluating 
string students. Therefore, she has sufficiently establishes that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 3 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 4 
The record contains a letter froml L the director of thec=J Symphony Orchestra, who 
states that "[the Petitioner] was invited as a soloist for several concerts including the joint concert with □symphony Orchestra and thel National Symphony Orchestra inl I" noting that her 
performance "was essential and critical to the success of the historic performance." He states that 
"[ s ]he was indeed the 'star' of the show, and the advertisements for the concert had her picture featured 
prominently on the front of the programs." He farther indicates that "[e]very performance she did 
with [the orchestra] was highly acclaimed from audienp.e.s ..... .apd critics both in [South] Korea and 
China." I lalso discusses the reputation ofthe[___JSymphony Orchestra, stating that it is 
a renowned orchestra in South Korea that performs over 100 concerts each year and that it "has 
recorded albums that have been nominated for the Grammy awards .... " In addition, the record 
contains an article published in Roma Today, discussing the orchestra's tour in Italy, indicating that 
the0 Symphony Orchestra has been "the undisputed star of the South Korean music scene" for 
sixty years. This evidence establishes the distinguished reputation of the Dsymphony Orchestra. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner's role in the performances noted above and the manner in which she was 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 Id. 
4 
Matter of G-H-C-
featured as a soloist in the joint concert inl O Jdemonstrates that she has performed a leading or 
critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
In addition, the record contains a letter from I I, the former conductor and director of the 
.__ __ __.I Philharmonic Orchestra, attesting to the Petitioner's performances with the orchestra. He 
states that she performed as a soloist with the orchestra in 2004 and as a concertmaster for the 
orchestra's tour in 2005 where "she led the orchestra successrly pertg'ing multi-city tours in 
Germany and the United States including~ University and Hall." He adds that the 
Petitioner performed as a soloist with the orchestra at the annual Festival in South Korea 
in 2012. The record reflects that thel !Philharmonic Orchestra is one of the leading orchestras 
in South Korea with its nationally recognized music festival and that the Petitioner's role as a soloist 
and concertmaster indicates that she performed a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation. Therefore, with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has established 
that she meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, having provided documentation that she 
meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In a final merits determination, 
we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Here, for the reasons discussed below the Petitioner has established that she 
meets this standard. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner began playing the violin at age four, and at age ten she began 
her performing career with the I I Symphony Orchestra. The Petitioner has submitted evidence 
demonstrating that she has performed as a soloist with the~ Philharmonic Orchestra, thec=J 
Symphony Orchestra, the I I Chamber Orchestra, and the I I Philharmonic Orchestra, 
among others. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received second place in the 20061.__~ ____ _.l, .... Ju .... t ..... eru ......... a .... tJ ... · o ..... u ... a....,l 
Violin Competition in German and first place for violin in the 2009 I I 
International Competition in .......,,=====--======; As noted above, the record indicates that the Petitioner 
won second place in the 2010 International Violin Competition inl I Italy. An 
article from www.teatro.it describes thel I competition as a prestigious competition 
judged by internationally renowned violinists. The Petitioner also won first place at the 2012 ~ I !International Competition inl I The record contains an article published in Asia Economic 
Daily that discusses her award and the prominence of this competition. Accordingly, these awards are 
an indication of the Petitioner's national or international acclaim in 2006, 2009, 2010, and 2012. 
The letter discussed above from I l the former conductor of the I I Philharrn"onic 
Orchestra, further explains the Petitioner's role with the orchestra and his involvement in selecting 
and directing her. He praises her performances as a soloist with the orchestra in 2004 and as a 
concertmaster for the orchestra's international tour in 2005. In discussing her role as a soloist with 
5 
Matter of G-H-C-
the orchestra at the annual I I Festival in South Korea in 2012, he states that "[h]er 
performance brought standing ovations from the audience and was most definitely a highlight of [his] 
career." This demonstrates that the Petitioner's role with thel !Philharmonic Orchestra is 
indicative of her national or international acclaim in 2004, 2005, and 2012. 
Similarly, I l the music director of the I I Chamber Orchestra, states in his letter that the 
Petitioner performed as a soloist for the orchestra in several prestigious national and international 
concerts from 2011 to 2013, specifically noting performances in a concert tour to China in 2012 and 
as a soloist at the 20131 I Concert in which she performed with 
several other renowned musicians. As discussed above, the record reflects that the Petitioner also 
played a prominent role as a soloist for thec=JSymphony Orchestra in China and South Korea in 
2012 and 2013. The Petitioner's roles with these orchestras further establishes her recognition in the 
field of expertise and her acclaim during these years. 
In a letter from Grammy award winning violinist I I she states that the Petitioner performed 
with her inl I at a benefit for the United Nations in 2015 and as part of a tour through the 
United States and to Brazil from 2015 to 20ll and that she will continue to perform as part of the 
national and international programs I has founded, attesting to her abilities as a musician. 
This reflects, with the evidence discussed above, that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that her work has been recognized in the field, indicating that she has risen 
to the very top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. She therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofG-H-C-, ID# 3146565 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF D-S-Y-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a creative director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he fulfills three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a creative director at} I inl I New York. 
Because he has not indicated or estab 1shed that he has received a maJor, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record contains evidence showing that the 
Petitioner participated as a judge at an annual reports design competition. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner met the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he "submitted detailed information about more than 30 (thirty) design 
awards," and "[i]t is custom of the competition to grant the award to the creative agency or design 
team." In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt oflesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Here, the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
2 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Petitioner did not receive the awards from 
1...........----,---,---------,----,---,------------,....,....----r-----'-.__ _____ T--:___., and.__ ______ __. 
Rather, the company employing the Petitioner,.__ ______ __, is the named recipient of the 
awards. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be 
on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the 
awards or prizes. 2 
Moreover, this regulatory criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding whether the 
basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or 
awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on 
competitors. 4 Although the Petitioner provided screenshots from the awarding entities I I 
5 regarding background information, he did not offer .__-----,---.,.....,...------,-----,---,........,...~ supporting evidence to corroborate the claims, such as widespread media coverage of the awards in 
major newspapers or other evidence showing the awards' national or international significance in the 
field. For instance, the screenshot from.__ ______ ~ claimed that "[t]he Awards are globally 
recognized, providing a platform for the highest standards in the annual report industry." The 
Petitioner, however, did not offer independent, objective evidence reflecting the national or 
international recognition of the awards for excellence in the field. 
Further, the record does include evidence showing that the Petitioner received I.__ _____ ~ 
"Certificate of Design Excellence" in 2006. Thus, contrary to the Petitioner's assertion, the record 
shows that awards may be granted to individuals rather than exclusively to creative agencies or design 
teams. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. Again, while the Petitioner submitted an "About Us" screenshot 
from I I indicating that its "Print Regional Design Awards" is "one of the most well­
respected design competitions in the industry," he did provide objective, corroborating documentation 
to establish the award's national or international recognition of excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on membership with the Art Director's Club 
(ADC) and the American Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA). In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors fi-om a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
5 The Petitioner did not provide any documentation relating tol ~ awards. 
3 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 6 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted "What is ADC?" and "About 
AIGA" screenshots from the associations' websites. 7 Although the screenshots relate to the 
background and history of ADC and AIGA, the Petitioner did not provide the membership 
requirements, so as to demonstrate that their memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their field consistent with the regulation at 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on "submitted articles about his original work." 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material "about the alien" in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 8 In the case here, the Petitioner presented screenshots about branding, marketing, and ~ projects for various comranies such as .__ ______ __. I 11 I 
L__ II 11 and Oather than published material about him. Articles that are 
not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 9 In fact, the screenshots never mention the Petitioner, let alone reflect 
published material about him. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field.10 For example, a petitioner may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, we 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
7 The Petitioner also provided screenshots confirming his memberships. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
9 Id (finding that the published material should be about the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field. not just about 
his or her employer or another organization with whom he or she is associated). 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he has demonstrated original 
contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "is clearly responsible for many contributions with major significance 
to graphic and commercial designs as well as marketing and finance through his work creating 
marketing campaigns, corporate annual reports, corporate identities as well as Style Guides, re­
brandings and original artwork and publications" and points to his portfolio reflecting samples of his 
work. While his portfolio demonstrates the originality of his work, the Petitioner did not show how 
his designs have been of major significance in the field. Although work may be "original," this fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance. 11 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that his portfolio "provides detailed information on each design 
project and [his] leading role on the project as well as awards the projects have won." The Petitioner's 
role on projects withl I land others is more relevant to the leading or critical role category 
of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion that will be discussed later. 
Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we 
will generally not consider evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion. Regardless, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his role with I I and others demonstrates the unusual 
influence in the overall field beyond his employer. 12 
Further, the Petitioner did not show that the awards received by I I reflect that his work 
has risen to the level of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As 
discussed under the awards criterion, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international 
recognition or significance of the awards in the field. He did not demonstrate, for example, the 
substantial impact his designs have had in the greater field or explain how they are otherwise majorly 
significant in the field. 
Likewise, the Petitioner argues that his work "garnered positive reviews for their innovativeness from 
design and business publications" and references the media articles discussed under the published 
material criterion. Although the articles report on companies rebranding their names, images, logos, 
and etc., the media reports do not discuss how the Petitioner's work has unusually influenced the 
greater field. For example, the Petitioner provided an article entitled, 1 .... ___________ _. 
from New York Magazine in which the company's annual report is 
complimented as being "good-looking."13 Here, the article does not indicate that the Petitioner's 
design significantly impacted the overall field beyond I 114 Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that his work received significant attention from the press in a manner with major 
significance in the field. 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
13 While we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and evaluated each one. 
14 The record also contain a letter froinl I vice president at=========== who also indicated that the 
Petitio.ner "help[ed] communicatd,_ _____ _.~arrative and the year's achievements and trends throu:h a distinctive 
theme, often with infographics, text and interactive displays using digital design." While I J discussed the 
Petitioner's work contributing tol I he did not indicate or show how the work is of major significance in the 
overall field. 
5 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Finally, the Petitioner claims that letters written on his behalf show "the tremendous significance his 
original designs have in a variety industry." Although the letters confirm his work on design projects 
and praise his talents and abilities, they do not explain or indicate how the Petitioner's work is 
considered original contributions of major significance in the field. For instance,! I 
founder and creative director fotl I stated that the Petitioner "was instrumental in the 
design and production of the year 2000 annual reports for .__ __________ ~ __ _.and I ~ and "is a remarkable talent who not only possesses an impressive creative 
mind but also true sense how business works and how to apply his abilities to help clients reach their 
business goals."15 Her~,I ldid not articulate the significance of the Petitioner's work in the 
greater field. Further, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has 
already used those skills and abilities to impact the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
Moreover, the letters generally assert that the Petitioner made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For example,! . I managing director for~-------~and I I president ofi J t,',oth claimed that the Petitioner "is responsible for 
many original contributions of major significance to the fields of design, commercial graphic design, 
branding, annual report design, editorial design, and web design for his projects and the projects of his 
clients." The identical language calls into question whether the letters were independently prepared 
by the authors, and therefore diminishes their probative value in establishing that the Petitioner's 
original contributions qualify for this criterion. Moreover, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Regardless, the letters do not contain detailed, probative 
information that identify the Petitioner's contributions and explain their major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not reflect detailed information explaining how his original 
contributions are tantamount to major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value.16 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.17 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
15 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
17 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he "played a leading and critical role not only as a creative director at 
I I his emjloY,er from 2002 to October 2018, but also as a senior graphic designer at I in I I and I I in I I and as a senior art director at I I in I I and references recommendation letters. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence 
must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 18 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 19 
The letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's essential roles to the companies.2° For instanceJ I 
claimed that the Petitioner "played a leading role at our agency and also served as a design and 
communications expert to client companies with prominent reputations in the creation and use of 
corporate and cultural literature, annuals reports, promotional and marketing pieces, and design 
solutions for Canadian companies." Moreover, I I indicated that the Petitioner "worked 
closely with our creative director as a member of a design team involved in work for such noted 
companies as'=====.----------'" Further,! I stated the Petitioner "played a 
leading role atl I and "managed client accounts and projects including the design and execution 
of annual reports and corporate identity systems." Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's 
employment, they do not reflect detailed, probative information demonstrating the specific nature and 
outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. 
On the other hand, I I principal for ~----~ detailed the Petitioner's 
responsibilities and specified his accomplishments contributing to the overall successes of the 
company. Therefore, the Petitioner demonstrated that he performed in critical role forl I 
However, this regulatory criterion also requires that a petitioner perform in a role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 21 While the record contains screenshots from 
I Is website, they do not indicate that the business enjoys a distinguished reputation. In 
addition, the self-promotional website includes "About Us," 'Testimonials," and "News & Views" 
screenshots without showing the reputation of the company. Moreover, as discussed under the awards 
criterion, the Petitioner presented evidence of the company's receipt of various awards, but he did not 
demonstrate the significance or relevance of them. Further, although he stresses that "[t]he client 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
19 Id. 
20 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
21 Id. at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
7 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
companies are regularly recognized as leaders in their industries by receiving the Fortune 100 or 
Fortune 500 designations," the Petitioner did not show that workin on projects for other companies 
with distinguished reputations necessarily establishes that also en·o s such a reputation. 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence portraying .___ ___ ____.s standing in the 
field. 22 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The record contains a 2017 letter froml I who stated that "[w]e asked [the Petitioner] to 
joinl I in 2002 as a senior gralhic designer," and "[w]e promoted [the Petitioner] to 
creative director." Moreover.I indicated that "[t]he position of Creative Director is a 
high-ranking position within design firms." Further.I ~pecified that the Petitioner's 
annual salary is $126,000 and his "performance also always qualifies him to receive our highest paid 
bonus." In addition, the Petitioner submitted Form W-2 for 2016 and 2017 reflecting gross wages, 
tips, and other compensation of $145,000 and $144,500, respectively. In order to satisfy this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to others in his field.23 Although the Petitioner provides comparative salary 
information, discussed below, he does not argue, nor does the record include, evidence demonstrating 
that any of his additional bonuses or other incentives are significantly high in relation to others. Thus, 
we will evaluate the record to determine whether the Petitioner commanded a high salary ($126,000) 
compared to others in his field without considering any bonuses or other compensation as part of his 
salary. 
The Petitioner provided screenshots from flcdatacenter.com for salaries of graphic designers from 
various geographic locations in the United States, including! I and from designcensus.org for 
salaries of overall designers in the t,nited States. However, the Petitioner's position with I I 
I I is a creative director, and he earns a salary as a creative director. Thus, the Petitioner did not 
compare his salary as a creative director "in relation to others in the field." See Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the screenshots from onetonline.org includes the position of 
creative directors with graphic designers. However, as indicated inl Is letter, the 
positions of graphic designer and creative director have distinguished responsibilities and receive 
different compensation. Moreover, the fact that onetonline.org combines multiple job titles into one 
does not establish that the Petitioner earns a high salary as a creative director compared to the website's 
definition of a graphic designer. Regardless, the screenshots only reflect the national median wages 
22 In addition, the record does not contain corroborating evidence establishing the distinguished reputations for I I I ~~ 
5 5 
23 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
of graphic designers rather than the high salaries of creative directors in the~l ___ ~INew York 
area. 
Similarly, the Petitioner presented screenshots from aiga.org reflecting that the 2014 national median 
total cash compensation for agency or design directors was $100,000 and in-house creative or design 
directors was $75,000. Notwithstanding that the Petitioner provided outdated data, the information 
relates to national median compensation rather than evidence of high salaries of creative directors in 
th~ IN ew York area. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from payscale.com reflecting that the average national 
salary for creative directors is $86,735. In addition, the screenshot shows that the average salary range 
of creative directors in the United States is between $46,108 and $154,325, with the 75th percentile 
earning around $120,000, similar to the Petitioner's salary. Thus, even considering average national 
salaries, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he commands a high salary in relation to other creative 
directors. 24 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner argues that "a commercial graphic designer is closely related to business as it forms a 
key part of each advertising and marketing campaign as well as representing the identity of the 
business through visual communications." Moreover, he contends that "documentation showing [his] 
membership in professional associations and major media coverage of his design projects also can be 
considered comparable evidence." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 25 A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 26 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. The 
fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that satisfies at least three is not evidence that a 
creative director could not do so. Again, the Petitioner claimed to fulfill seven criteria. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish why his evidence, which did not demonstrate his eligibility for the 
membership and published material criteria, should then be considered as comparable evidence under 
24 We note that the Director indicated that "[i]t is worthwhile to remark that payscale.com indicates that creative directors 
inl I New York can earn up to $164,143 [for total pay]." The Petitioner does not contest or address the Director's 
finding on appeal. 
25 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
26 Id. 
9 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
those same criteria. In addition, the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly comparable" 
to the criteria listed in the regulation. 27 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies for additional criteria through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
27 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
10 
Matter of D-S-Y-P-
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of D-S-Y-P-, ID# 3627741 (AAO July 2, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9091946 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive athlete in taekwondo and kickboxing, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), which requires documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he would continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the 
Petitioner's appeal from that decision. 1 The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish 
that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or Service policy. A motion to 
reconsider a decision on an application or petition must, when filed, also establish that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
1 As we found that the Petitioner had not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 
was therefore ineligible for the classification , we did not address the Director's separate finding with respect to whether 
the Petitioner would continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us on motion is whether the Petitioner has either submitted new facts supported by 
documentary evidence sufficient to warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision to 
dismiss his appeal was based on an incorrect application of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) law or policy. 
A. AAO Decision 
In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not demonstrate, that he had 
received a major internationally recognized award that qualifies as a one-time achievement pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We acknowledged the Petitioner's claim to have met six of the ten alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
We found that the Petitioner had met only one criterion, relating to nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Petitioner contends, on motion, that he met all six of 
these criteria and also documented his receipt of a major internationally recognized award that qualifies 
as a one-time achievement. For the reasons set forth below, the Petitioner has not submitted new facts 
or evidence establishing that he meets any additional criteria, nor has he shown that our prior decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner does not provide any new facts in his brief but has submitted new evidence in s1pport I 
of his motion to reopen. This evidence includes screenshots from a YouTube video titled 
I I posted on the Fight Planet channel on I I 2019. One of 
the screenshots shows that the Petitioner was the winner of this fight. The Petitioner has not addressed 
the significance of this new evidence or submitted any additional explanation or evidence regarding 
I I although it appears it may be intended to address the awards criterion at 8 fF.R. §I 
204.5(h)(3)(i). The Petitioner has neither claimed nor established that winning this match a 
resulted in his receipt of a major internationally recognized award that qualifies as one-time 
achievement pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). 
Further, based on this limited evidence, it appears that the Petitioner competed in this event subsequent 
to the date of filing this petition in February 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l 
Comm'r 1971 ). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible 
under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). 
Regardless, as noted, we previously determined that the Petitioner satisfied the lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) based on previously submitted 
evidence. This new evidence does not overcome any of the evidentiary deficiencies we addressed in 
dismissing the Petitioner's appeal. 
The Petitioner also submits two documents titled "Official's License" from the Professional 
Kickboxing and Kagefighting Federation. One of the documents was issued to the Petitioner in March 
2019 and states that he "has attained the license of Professional Cornerman" and is a member of the 
federation in good standing. The other states that the Petitioner "has attained the license of Amateur 
Kickboxer." Both licenses were issued to the Petitioner more than one year after the filing of the 
petition and cannot establish his eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C .F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). Further, 
the Petitioner has not explained the significance of the evidnece or why it would warrant reopening 
his appeal. 
Finally, the Petitioner has submitted a printout of an online article titled '.__ _________ __. I t which is dated c==J 2017 and was published by Ashgabat 2017 
(www.ashgabat2017.com), the website of thec===]Indoof & Martial Arts Qames. The article 
confirms that the Petitioner was the gold medal winner in the '~--~--=-~-.--~=-,............J event at thel I 
Kickboxing Championship, which the Petitioner claims is a major internationally recognized award 
and qualifying one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In determining that the Petitioner did not establish that his first place finish in this competition was a 
major internationally recognized award, we observed that the submitted evidence did not demonstrate 
the international import of the tournament or establish that the medals bestowed at the event are 
recognized beyond the participants and organizers of the event at a level commensurate with a major, 
internationally recognized award, such as a Nobel Prize. For example, we noted that the record did 
not demonstrate that there was a rigorous selection process for the tournament or establish that the 
3 
Petitioner's event attracted a substantial audience, received significant international media coverage 
or that his award was otherwise internationally recognized. The new article submitted on motion was 
published by the organizers of the event on the event's own website and therefore does not cure these 
deficiencies. 
We have also considered this new evidence under the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires the Petitioner to submit published material that is about him and 
relating to his work in his field. The Petitioner must establish that the published materials appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, and include the title, date and author 
of the material. The newly submitted article published on the Ashgabat 2017 website primarily focuses 
on the overall country medal standings as of the fourth day off the ~ Kickboxing Confederation I I Championships and provides results of some individual events held on that d~r The I 
article does mention the Petitioner and include a quote from hid, notilg that he won gold in th ~ fight event, but lost to an athlete froml I in th kick light final. However, even 
ifwe determined that this article is about the Petitioner, he has not established that it meets all elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The article does not identify the author of the material 
and is not accompanied by evidence that the Ashgabat 201 7 website is a professional publication, 
major trade publication or other major medium. 
For the foregoing reasons, although the Petitioner has submitted new evidence on motion, he has not 
submitted sufficient new facts supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence to warrant the 
reopening of this matter. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In support of the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner submits a brief in which he addresses the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and asserts that we erred in determining that the 
previously submitted evidence satisfied only one of these criteria. For the reasons discussed below, 
the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not establish that our prior decision was based on an 
incorrection application of law or USCIS policy. 
1. One Time Achievement 
First, the Petitioner disputes our determination that his gold medal received at the 2017 I I 
Kickboxing Championship is not a qualifying one-time achievement pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), stating that it "definitely qualifies as a major, internationally recognized award, as per 
documentation submitted." 
We acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his first-rlace finish and a press release 
from the I I Kickboxing Organizations I which discussed the event, in 
which athletes from 15 countries competed. However, as discussed above, we found that the limited 
documentation submitted did not establish the international import of this championship tournament 
or establish that the Petitioner's first-place finish was recognized beyond the participants and 
organizers at a level commensurate with a major internationally recognized award. 
We also stressed that, given Congress' intent to restrict this visa category to "that small percentage of 
4 
individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting 
eligibility based on a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small 
handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. Congress' example of a 
one-time achievement is a Nobel Prize. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The regulation 
is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be a maJor, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner's assertion on motion that his gold medal at the 20171 IKickboxing Championship 
"definitely qualifies" as a major internationally recognized award does not demonstrate how we 
incorrectly applied the applicable law or USCIS policy in evaluating his evidence. 
2. Evidentiary Criteria 
In the brief submitted on motion, the Petitioner also disputes our determination that he did not satisfy 
five of the six alternate evidentiary criteria he claimed to meet at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Although the Petitioner disputes our findings, we emphasize that merely disagreeing with our 
conclusions does not provide a basis for reconsideration of our decision. The Petitioner must establish 
that we erred as a matter of law or policy in analyzing the evidence before us or point to precedent 
decisions that contradict our analysis of the evidence. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In our appellate decision, we considered the Petitioner's membership on thel !National Junior 
Taekwondo Team but found that he had not shown that the membership requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. We acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted letters from an official of the national federation in the sport, but noted that the 
letters were not sufficiently specific with respect to the national team membership requirements or 
selection processes, and were not accompanied by any corroborating evidence such as published rules 
governing team selection. 
On motion the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence satisfied the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and that we erred in finding otherwise. He reiterates that the national 
taekwondo team of1 I "require[ s] outstanding achievements of its members as judged by the 
nationally and internationally recognized experts." The Petitioner does not, however, specifically 
argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Disagreeing with our 
conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may 
submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
decision). 
The Petitioner does not establish, on motion, that he is a member of associations in the field that require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
5 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted one published article from the 
newspaper Varzish Sport, which was about him and relating to his work in the field. However, the article 
was published nearly ten months after the filing of the petition. We emphasized that, under 8 C.F.R. § 
103 .2(b )( 1 ), the Petitioner must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing. Because 
the article in Varzish Sport post-dated the filing of the petition and therefore could not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion, we did not reach a determination of whether this publication is 
a professional publication, major trade publication or other major medium. 
On motion, the Petitioner incorrectly states that we based our determination on a finding that "the 
evidence does not indicate that the material was published in professional or major trade publications or 
other media," and cites case law in support of his claim that we acted "arbitrarily or capriciously" in 
evaluating this criterion. The Petitioner does not acknowledge or contest our finding that the sole article 
submitted was published subsequent to the date of filing and therefore cannot establish that he met this 
criterion in February 2018 when he filed the petition. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established on motion that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in evaluating this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several letters from I I the president of the National Taekwondo and Kickboxing Federation I I who 
attested to his judging experience. However, the letters contained inconsistent information. In a letter 
submitted at the time of filing) • btates that the Petitioner "completed a course in ITF 
judging rules and served as a judge" at six listed competitions held between March 2015 and May 
2017. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted another letter 
froml l in which he states that the Petitioner judged only four competitions, held between 
May 2014 and May 2015, including only three of the six competitions listed in the previous letter. He 
states that the Petitioner served as a "side judge" at all these competitions. In a second letter provided 
in response to the RFEJ lstates he can confirm that the Petitioner served as "an official 
judge (Comer Judge) for the National Taekwondo Championship of the,__ _______ __.m 
May 2015. 
Because of the unexplained inconsistencies in these statements, we found that they were insufficient 
on their own to establish the Petitioner's participation as a judge. We emphasized that if testimonial 
evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit 
corroborative evience Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). However, the Petitioner 
relied solely on l's letters and did not submit corroborating evidence, such as his 
6 
International Taekwondo Federation (ITF)-issued judging certification, his event-specific judging 
credentials, or official records from one or more events in which he claims he served on a judging 
panel to show that he both possesses the necessary qualifications as an ITF judge and actually 
participated as a judge in the competitions. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he provided "extensive evidence establishing his participation 
as a judge" and mentions that he served as a comer judge at a national taekwondo championship in I I The Petitioner does not address our determination that his evidence consisted primarily of 
inconsistent statements froml lor explain how we incorrectly applied law, users policy 
or relevant case law to the facts presented by finding those letters alone to be insufficient to establish 
his eligibility under the criterion at 8 e.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
on motion that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In our appellate decision, we addressed testimonial evidence praising the Petitioner's athletic talents 
and achievements but determined that the evidence did not specifically articulate how he has made 
original contributions that have remarkably impacted the field or otherwise risen to the level of major 
significance in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner disputes our conclusion, but does not establish that it was based on an 
incorrect application of law or users policy. The Petitioner cites to case law in support of his claim 
that expert testimony "cannot be rejected outright" and "an expert letter may not be dismissed without 
a specific, cogent reason for finding that it is not credible evidence in support of the petition." 
However, we did not reject or dismiss the Petitioner's expert opinion letters outright; we considered 
their contents and explained our reasons for determining that they were insufficient to establish that 
the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner also claims on motion that we 
inappropriately rejected the letters "for alleged lack of additional supporting documentation," but we 
did not mention a lack of supporting documentation in addressing this criterion. 
We agree with the Petitioner that the opinions of experts are not without weight, and our decision 
reflects that we evaluated the letters he provided. With respect to evaluating evidence submitted in 
support of the criterion at 8 e.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(v), letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 2 
Letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 The letters mentioned the Petitioner's athletic successes in 
national and international competition and his membership on a national team, but did not demonstrate 
how these activities equate to "original" athletic contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not shown, on motion, that we incorrectly applied law or users policy to the facts 
of his case in evaluating this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. at 9. 
7 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
In our prior decision, we noted that the initial evidence submitted with the petition, including a 
personal statement from the Petitioner and a letter froml I did not include any mention 
of the Petitioner serving as the captain of I Is national or junior national taekwondo team. 
Later, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a new letter from I I 
ass1rtinr that he had been selected as team captain in 2016, and led the team to a third place finish at 
the Junior and D Veteran World ITF Taekwondo Championship. 4 We determined that D 
1 Is letter alone was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner held a formal team captain role 
that was critical to the team's success, and noted a lack of supporting evidence, such as a team roster 
or letter from the team captain. In addition, we noted that. although requested by the Director, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that thel I national or junior national taekwondo 
team has a distinguished reputation in the sport. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he "provided extensive evidence establishing that he performed 
in a critical role in thel !National Taekwondo and Kickboxing team, having occupied the 
position of team captain in 2016." However, the Petitioner does not address our reasons for 
determining that his evidence was insufficient or explain how we incorrectly applied the law or policy 
to the facts of his case with respect to this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de nova review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Although 
he makes additional arguments on motion relating to a final merits determination, the Petitioner has 
not submitted the required initial evidence meeting at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 We noted that the Petitioner submitted a copy of his ·'Participation Certificate" from this competition but did not provide 
evidence of any individual or team awards or prizes awarded to him at this event. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8303667 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the deputy general manager of his employer's "Brand Management Center" and former 
financial journalist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement , having satisfied only two of the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets four of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise 
qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided evidence that he is employed by,__ ______ ____, 
I I as the deputy general manager of its "Brand Management Center." 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has worked in corporate brand management positions for three 
other Chinese companies since 2015. Previously, he worked as a financial journalist, most recently 
as an editorial board member for,__ _______ ~ The Petitioner states that he has several 
potential employment opportunities in the United States, which include starting his own financial 
media platform, working as a columnist for an information technology company, or working as a 
research consultant for a university sociology department. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets four of these ten regulatory criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v) Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii) Performing in a leading or critical role; and 
• (ix) High salary or other remuneration. 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these four evidentiary criteria, relating to his 
participation as a judge of the work of others and high salary. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets the other two claimed criteria. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging criterion based on his 
participation on the judging panel for a special issue of Southern Weekend magazine, which recognized 
the best Chinese journalism in the first decade of the 21st century. However, we disagree with the 
Director's favorable finding regarding the high salary criterion, and with his unfavorable finding 
regarding the scholarly articles criterion. We discuss these findings below. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his co-authorship of the boo kl I I published by D University Press in 2006. .___ __ _. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner authored this book and 
implied that the initial evidence satisfied the plain language of this criterion. But he noted that 
submission of one publication under this criterion is not reflective of the Petitioner "being amongst 
the small percentage at the very top of the field."1 In the denial decision, however, the Director found 
that the Petitioner's book was "published for the general public" and is therefore not "scholarly." 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner's book was authored by him and other "senior media financial 
journalists." For fields outside the academic area, a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in the field, which means individuals "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." 2 The record does not support the Director's determination that the book's intended 
audience is "the general public." Rather, based on its documented intended audience and the fact that 
the book is regularly cited in scholarly articles in the academic arena, the record supports the 
Petitioner's claim that is regarded as a professional publication. In addition, while it has been used as 
a textbook in university journalism curricula, the record reflects that the book is also intended as a 
resource for journalism professionals. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
1 Consistent with the two-part review described in Kazarian, we note that submission of one qualifying publication is all 
that is required to meet the plain language of this criterion; an assessment of whether the evidence demonstrates a 
petitioner's sustained acclaim or placement among those at the top of the field should be conducted as part of a final merits 
determination if a petitioner satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-I 40 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his "critical roles" with both I I and,__ ______ ~ The Petitioner has also claimed 
to hold "leading roles" with these employers. 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 3 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 4 
The Petitioner initially provided a copy of his August 2015 offer letter from I I indicating 
its intent to hire him as its "Director of Brand Department." In a cover letter, the Petitioner explained 
that this was "a management role" with responsibility for "overseeing its functional divisions of public 
strategy" and "communicating with finance and economic media" to promote the group's! publicl 
image. He stated that "he was highly engaged in many famous events" notin that he: (1) "led 
to establish an annually published internal magazine called ,__ ____ ...,..'; (2) organized a news 
release to promote a speech made by I Is CEO at,....._ __ __,_niversity; and (3) was 
"engaged to invite directors of real estate consulting companies to comment on the matter of transition 
beyond China's real estate development." 
The Petitioner's initial submission included evidence that .... I ----~1-,}I which is ranked on the 
Fortune Global 500 list, has a distinguished reputation. However, he did not submit evidence in 
support of his claims that he served in a critical role. As noted, he provided a copy of his "Employment 
Confirmation Letter" but this was an employment offer letter; it did not identit his duties or 
accomplishments with the company. He also provided a screen shot of a I . magazine from 
the I ~ s website. Although the cover letter indicates that the Petitioner led the 
establishment of the magazine, the sam le issue provided was published in 2014. Given that the 
Petitioner indicates that he joined in Se tember 2015, this evidence does not support 
his claim that he led the establishment of the ,__ ___ __, magazme. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a reference letter froml I who indicates that he is the 
Chief Marketing Officer for a U.S. company, I 11 I states that the Petitioner was 
employed asl ~s "Brand Manager," recounts the same three achievements mentioned in 
the Petitioner's cover letter and concludes that "[i]t is not an exaggeration to say that [the Petitioner] 
has played an important role in such a famous ente!l)rise." I I does not indicate that he has any 
prior employment or affiliation withl 11 or otherwise claim any personal knowledge of the 
Petitioner's duties and contributions at that company. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that he would need to submit letters from his employers' 
high-level executive officers with personal knowledge of his leading or critical role, who could provide 
detailed and probative information, including his specific tasks and accomplishments and how they 
compared to those of other managers. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
4 Id. 
4 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I lofi I who states that she 
served in the position of Vice President of New Media during the Petitioner's two-year tenure with 
the company] btates that the Petitioner was "an important figure inl 1 I particularly 
in the Group's branding campaigns in traditional media." She further indicates that the Petitioner "led 
the brand department to create and maintain a favorable public image for I I' I I 
also credits the Petitioner with executing a "correct corporate branding strategy," mentions his 
leadership of "annual internal publications" (including! I that are acclaimed by the 
company's workforce, and notes his handling of a "PR crisis" involving the group CEO'sl I 
University speech, mentioned in the initial support letter. She concludes that the Petitioner's work 
"significantly contributed to the Group's public image and strength." 
The Director determined that although! Is letter provided information about the Petitioner's 
duties in the brand department, it did not establish how his position was leading or critical to the entire 
organization, or establish that he was responsible for the organization's success or standing to a degree 
consistent with the meaning of "leading or critical role." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his position withl lwas "significantly important to 
the outcome of the organization because [he] was the ONLY Director of the Brand Department." He 
also asserts that "it is well established that corporate branding is significantly important to the 
development of any organization," and submits articles about branding from Forbes and 
Brandingmag. Finally, the Petitioner submits a partial, undated personnel list forl 1 I 
published by the website Sum View, which according to a submitted article from ScienceDirect is "a 
Web-based review summarization system to summarize product reviews and customer opinions." The 
translation of the personnel list identifies the Petitioner as "Brand 2 Director." 
In evaluating whether a petitioner served in a critical role, it is not the title of the role, but rather the 
individual's performance in that role that determines whether the role was critical. The Petitioner's 
arguments and evidence on appeal do not directly address the Director's determination thatc==1_ 
letter provided insufficient evidence related to the Petitioner's performance in his role with L__J 
I 1-The fact that branding is generally regarded in business circles as an important corporate 
function is not sufficient to support a finding that the Petitioner's specific contributions in his role with I lwere of significant importance to the outcome of this organization's activities. 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that he was the only director level employee inl.._ __ _. I Is brand department, but he did not provide adequate support for that claim. An undated, partial 
employee list from a third-party website that has no affiliation with I 1 lis not sufficient to 
establish the management and personnel structure of the company's branding and public relations 
divisions during the Petitioner's tenure with the company. A claim that his role is leading or critical 
based on placement in the company's structure would be better supported by documentation derived 
from the company itself, such as an organizational chart. 
We agree with the Director's determination that, while] ]provided some insights into the nature 
of the Petitioner's job duties, her general assertion that he was "an important figure" who "contributed 
5 
to the Group's public image and internal strength" did not provide "probative information that 
specifically addresses how the petitioner's role for the organization was leading or critical."5 
On appeal, the Petitioner further claims that he held a critical role with'-----------~ 
and that the Director's decision failed to address evidence demonstrating that he was employed as 
"Executive Editor in Chief'' for this publication. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a "Certificate" from.___~----------~ I I confirming the Petitioner's employment as an "Editorial Board Member" forOfrom 
September 2009 until February 2015. The certificate, which bears a company seal but is not attributed 
to an individual representative of the company, includes a two-sentence description of the Petitioner's 
duties. The Petitioner also submitted media articles aboutc=] examples of a regular column that he 
wrote.__ ________ __., for D between 2011 and 2013, and copies of internal emails 
intended to demonstrate his decision-makin authorit as an editor. Finally, the Petitioner submitted 
a reference letter from.__ _______ --.------.---'at the Financial Times, who describes the 
Petitioner's duties as "Executive Editor" with However,! I does not claim to have any 
affiliation withOor to know the Petitioner personally. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged receipt of this evidence, but, as noted above, advised the 
Petitioner that he would need to submit letters from his employers' high-level executive officers with 
personal knowledge of his leading or critical role, who could provide detailed and probative 
information about his specific tasks and accomplishments. The Petitioner did not submit any additional 
evidence related to his role with ~ in his response to the RFE, although we note that in the 
accompanying cover letter, he stated that "USCIS did not question [his] leading role as Executive 
Editor atl t' We note, however, that the RFE did not convey that the Director found the initial 
evidence regarding his position withl !sufficient to establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner emphasizes on appeal that his role as "Executive Editor in Chief'' was "critically 
important to the outcome of the organization" because he was responsible for "managing topic 
selection, quality control and review of the whole press daily news reports." The Petitioner submitted 
copies of business e-mails from 2012 as evidence that he performed some of these duties. Both the 
emails and the employment certificate issued by the company indicate that the Petitioner was an 
editorial board member; this evidence does not indicate that he wasl t'Executive Editor in Chief'' 
as now claimed on appeal. The duties emphasized by the Petitioner are mentioned in the company's 
certificate, which indicates that he performed these tasks when acting as "on-duty Editorial Board 
Member." 
The evidence submitted is sufficient to establish thatc=J has a distinguished reputation. However, 
the record lacks a detailed letter from a senior official at D with personal knowledge of the 
significance of the Petitioner's role who can provide detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how his role was leading or critical for the organization. As noted, the only 
letter from lis not attributed to an individual company representative and includes a two-sentence 
job description. This brief employment confirmation does not explain how the Petitioner's role was 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 
leading compared to other editorial staff: nor did it indicate that his role was of significant importance 
for this organization's success or standing so as to demonstrate a critical role. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director's determination that this criterion was not met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 6 
As evidence of his past earnings, the Petitioner submitted: 1 co ies of offer letters from his current 
employer and two prior employers L-----r-------,... ______ ____J; (2) a "Proof of 
Income" letter from a third prior employer,.__ ____ --,----,--, that he joined in 20187; (3) his pay 
statements for the months of April, May and June 2019: and ( 4) his bank statement for the period May 
2018 to May 2019, with deposits highlighted as evidence of his "after-tax salary." 
We note that the offer letters alone provide insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's prior earnings. 
Further, the deposits highlighted on the Petitioner's bank statement do not identify the source of the 
funds transferred and therefore are not sufficient to corroborate the salary the Petitioner received as an 
employee wit~ I However, the Petitioner has documented his receipt of a basic 
annual salary of 900,000 RMB in his current role as "deputy general manager l I t by providing his April 2019 pay statement.-----~ 
In support of his claim that he commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field, the Petitioner 
initially submitted a 2017 Annual Survey of the China International Public Relations Association 
(CIPRA). This report was based on surveys of 40 "major public relations companies in mainland 
China." In a section titled "Operation Management," it states "[t]he average annual salary is 13733 
yuan/month," but the report does not specify to which occupation this average figure refers, and 
therefore does not provide a meaningful basis for comparison to the Petitioner's deputy general 
manager position. In fact, when read in context, it appears that the cited salary is the average paid 
among all employees in the top 30 public relations companies in China and is not position-specific. 
The 12-page report does not include any additional salary information. 
The Petitioner also converted his Chinese salary to U.S. dollars and provided data from a U.S. 
Department of Labor website indicating that the converted salary would place him among high salary 
earners for the "Public Relations Specialist" occupation inl I However, individuals who have 
been working in different countries must be evaluated based on evidence of wages paid in their own 
country, rather than converting their local salary to U.S. dollars and using U.S.-based wage data as a 
basis for comparison. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11 (indicating that it is a petitioner's burden to provide 
appropriate evidencT such as geogranbica) or nositiou-annrnnriate compensation surveys). D 
7 This letter is from I but states that the Petitioner was employed b I ~ as a deputy brand officer beginning in April 2018, with a monthly salary of 88,000 RMB. The record does 
not clarify the relationship between these two entities. 
8 The petition was filed in April 2019. 
7 
Finally, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted excerpts from a Robert Walters 
2019 Salary Survey for Greater China & Southeast Asia. The Petitioner highlighted the salary for a 
"Senior Brand Manager" in the FMCG (fast-moving consumable goods) industry in thel I 
region. The range given is a base annual salary of "450-720k" yuan ( exclusive of benefits and 
bonuses). The survey did not include job description for the included job titles and did not identify 
percentiles for the high and low salaries in the provided range. 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he is the "Deputy General Manager of Brand 
Management Center" fo~ I The Petitioner has 
not submitted a description of his position or information regarding its associated level of 
responsibility and authority. However, the job title on its face implies that the Petitioner is the deputy 
in charge of brand management division or department, rather than a brand manager or senior brand 
manager." Therefore, while the Petitioner's salary is higher than that reflected in the survey, the 
limited information provided suggests that he holds a higher-level position. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary "in relation to others" 
who are employed in the same or similar position and not at a lower level in the same occupational 
area. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 
(N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. 
Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). The Petitioner has not established that the salary of a senior brand manager in the FMCG 
industry is an appropriate basis for comparison for his position as a deputy general manager of a brand 
department or division. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Sustained National or International Acclaim 
Because we do not find that the Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the above criteria, 
we need not render a final merits determination as described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.9 
Nevertheless, because the Director granted two criteria and we granted a third (while withdrawing one 
previously granted), we will briefly discuss whether the evidence otherwise establishes the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the requested classification. 
The statutory threshold is sustained national or international acclaim; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) requires 
a showing that the Petitioner is in the small percentage at the very top of the field. In this instance, 
the Petitioner has provided evidence of his achievements as both a financial journalist and as a 
corporate brand manager. The Petitioner's recognition and reputation, however, have not been shown 
to rise to the very high level of sustained national or international acclaim. 
9 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
8 
Regarding the Petitioner's achievements as a financial journalist, the evidence reflects that he received 
recognition from the field for his 2006 investigative report I I I lpublished by Caijing magazine. The petitioner provided evidence that his report was 
later selected by a Southern Weekend I I issue as "the best investigative report of the year." A 
former deputy editor of Southern Weekend explains that the Petitioner's report "caused a sensation" 
and is regarded as "the most authoritative and detailed report" of thel !Social Security 
corruption case. Southern Weekend's current deputy editor in chief indicates that the Petitioner was 
personally invited to serve as a judge for a subsequent Southern Weekend 1 I issue as a result 
of the "far reaching and profound influence" of his report. While the record indicates that he received 
recognition for his investigative report that led to a judging opportunity for a prominent magazine, 
these events occurred ten years before the filing of the petition and do not provide sufficient evidence 
of his sustained national or international acclaim. 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he co-authored a financial journalism textbook in 2006 
which, according to submitted reference letters, is recognized as the first of its kind in China, has 
inspired others to write similar books in this subject area, and has been cited at least 30 times. While 
the Petitioner provided evidence the book is widely available and a letter from the publisher indicating 
that it has been adopted by many national journalism colleges as recommended reading, the record 
does not establish that the publication of the book and its reception have resulted in his recognition as 
being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
Finally, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner's successes as a rporter enabled him to advance 
in his career to an editorial role when he joined the editorial board o n 2009. While the record 
establishes that this is an important position with a prominent publication, the record does not support 
his claim that he was "Executive Editor in Chief," nor does it reflect that he received recognition for 
his achievements during his tenure with ~ consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. Even if we determined that the Petitioner had served in a critical role with D we note 
that serving in high-ranking positions for distinguished employers, is not intrinsically evidence of 
acclaim. By way of analogy, even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). 
Overall, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has been very successful in the field and is regarded 
by his peers and colleagues as an expert in financial journalism. However, the record is not supported 
by extensive evidence consistent with a finding that he has a "career of sustained acclaim," nor has he 
established that any national acclaim he may have achieved early in his career has been sustained. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence of one published report that received wide recognition, one 
invitation to participate as a judge of his peers, and authorship of one well-received book. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that some of his other articles and reports have been republished and that the 
reproduction of his articles is evidence of his sustained acclaim, but this assertion is not adequately 
supported. The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
9 
The record further reflects that, more recently, the Petitioner made a career transition from financial 
journalism to corporate brand management. The record reflects that he has been employed by four 
different com1anies between 2015 and 2019, and he has submitted evidence related to his role with I and evidence of his earnings with his most recent employer. This evidence portrays 
the Petitioner as a successful, managerial- or executive-level worker in this second field, but success 
is not synonymous with acclaim, and the evidence does not support a finding that he has received 
recognition for his achievements in this field consistent with the very high standards for this 
classification. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals at the top of their respective fields. While the Petitioner need not establish that there 
is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17302836 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 02, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineer who specializes in.__ _________ _, system design, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act ( the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawaihe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently em lo ed as an Executive Assistant Chief En ineer and Mana er of 
Research Center with .__-------------------------===' i-----------~in China. She indicates her intent to continue employment in the design o~ 
.__ ______ _ systems in the United States . 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--(x) . The Petitioner claims that she can satisfy five of these ten criteria, 
summarized below. 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation . 
The Director determined that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in her field 
and authored scholarly articles that appeared in professional publications and therefore meets the criteria 
at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and(vi). The record supports the Director's determination thatthe Petitioner 
satisfies these two criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the three remaining claimed 
criteria. 
After reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, we conclude, for the reasons 
discussed below, that the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial with respect to the 
2 
awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and did not apply the plain language of the regulation to 
the evidence presented with respect to the leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will thereforewithdrawthe Director's decision and remandthematterforfurther 
review and entry of a new decision. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to her receipt of 12 awards in the engineering design field, 
only some of which were specifically referenced in the Director's decision. The Director determined, 
in paii, that "the [petitioner] must demonstrate her own receipt of prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field of endeavor and it appears her employer was the recipient of an award in some instances." 
The Director did identify which awards were excluded from consideration for this reason. 
Nevertheless, we note that all the awards documented in the record were attributed to both the 
Petitioner's employer and to named individual contributors who worked on the award-winning 
engineering projects, including the Petitioner. Further, the Petitioner provided evidence that she 
received individual recognition in the fmm of award ce1iificates from the entities that issued the 
awards. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not impose a requirement that the Petitioner 
be the sole recipient of an award. 
The Director also stated that "the evidence appeared to indicate award recipients were limited to those 
affiliated with I l inherently excluding the entire field." We note that some, but not all, of 1he 
awards documented in the record were presented by thel I I I for engineering design projects that were either completed in I lor completed by I ~based firms. The evidence does not support a determination that all the awards documented 
in the record had a limited geographical scope. In fact, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
submitted evidence of two awards from the Architectural Society of China, a national organization, 
but did not evaluate evidence submitted to establish that such awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
The Director further determined that some of the foreign language materials submitted in support of 
this criterion "were not accompanied by certified English translations in accordance with 8 CFR 
103.2(b )(3)" and as such were not considered probative. The Directordidnotidentifywhichmaterials 
were excluded from consideration for this reason and we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the 
English translations submitted with her foreign language materials were in compliance with the 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The Director concluded his analysis of this criterion with a citation to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(g)(l ), which relates to requirements for initial supporting documents for employment-based 
immigrant classifications. This regulation addresses the submission of photocopies and evidence 
related to qualifying experience or training. The Director did not explain how the cited regulation 
relates to the evidence submitted in support of this criterion or reach a conclusion that the Petitioner's 
evidence was not in compliance with this regulation. 
3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contestthe decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). For the reasons discussed above, the Director's 
analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the awards criterion did not adequately address the 
evidence submitted or provide the Petitioner with adequate notice of the reasons such evidence was 
determined to be deficient. 
The plain language of this criterion requires that the Petitioner be a recipient of an award, that the 
award was granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, and that the award is recognized 
at the national or international level. 1 Therefore, on remand, the Director should reevaluate this 
evidence to determine whether the Petitioner was a recipient of an award, as well as whether any 
awards she received were for excellence in the field of engineering design. If so, the Director should 
then determine whether any such awards are nationally or internationally recognized in the Petitioner's 
field. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In evaluating the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided a letter from her current employerJ I I l which describes her position as Executive Assistant Chief Engineer and 
Manager of thl !Research Center. 
However, the Director's discussion of this criterion primarily focused on whether the evidence 
established that the Petitioner had made original contributions of major significance in her field, a 
separate evidentiary criterion found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which the Director had already 
addressed in his decision. For example, in discussing the leading or critical roles criterion, the 
Director emphasized that "the [petitioner's] original contributions in the field must be demonstrated 
by preexisting, independent corroborating evidence." Further, the analysis of this criterion concludes 
with a determination that" [ w ]ithout extensive documentation showing that the [petitioner's] work has 
been unusually influential, highly acclaimed at the national or international level, or has otherwise 
risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field, we cannot conclude that 
she meets this criterion." The Petitioner does not need to establish that she has made nationally or 
internationally acclaimed original contributions of major significance to satisfy the plain language of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The issue of whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in the sustained national and 
international acclaim required for this classification is an evaluation to be made in the final merits 
determination in cases where the individual has satisfied the initial evidence requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 ); this standard should not be applied to individual evidentiary criteria. In addition to the 
language quoted above, the Director's analysis of this criterion included a statement that "[t]here is no 
1 Sec Kazarian, 596F.3d at 1121 
4 
evidence to indicate reactions from the scientific community, professional organizations or references 
by researchers or experts places her at the top of her field" and observes that the evidence does not 
show the Petitioner's "acclaim in the field." Again, in evaluating an individual's eligibility as an 
extraordinary ability alien under the multi-part analysis required by the regulations, a determination 
as to whether the Petitioner is at the "top of her field" should be reserved for a final merits 
determination. SeeKazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010).2 
The repeated references to "original contributions" and the imposition of a requirement that the 
Petitioner establish that she is "at the top of her field," reflect that the Director did not apply the plain 
language of this criterion or the appropriate standard to the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion. The Director only briefly addresses the elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) and did not evaluate the evidence according to those elements. The decision 
mentions that the Petitioner did not provide "a hierarchical chart" or similar evidence to support the 
assertion that she held a leading role for an organization or establishment. However, the record 
contains a detailed chart illustrating the placement of her position within the management structure of I ~ It appears that the Director did not review this 
relevant evidence in evaluating whether the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitioner also claimed that she erformed in a leadin or critical 
role with her prior employer, ______ -==------------------- The 
Director's decision does not acknowledge this claim or address the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
to establish that she held a qualifying role with this company. 
On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion to determine if she has performed in leading or critical roles for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a full final merits determination. On remand, the Director 
should review the evidence of record consistent with the analysis provided above, including the 
Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted on appeal. If the Director determines that the Petitioner 
meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 We observe that, theDirector's analysis of the original contributions criterionat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(5) was generally 
sufficient to inform the Petitioner why her evidence did not establish the major significance of her contributions in her 
field. However, the Director also noted that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not "demonstrate her 
national and international acclaim." The Director should refrain from applying this standard when evaluating this criterion 
on remand. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 2, 2024 In Re: 31205065 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only two: published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging the work of others at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria, 
relating to awards, original contributions, display, and critical role. 
Upon review ofthe record, we agree with the Petitioner that he satisfies the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 1 The Petitioner has therefore overcome the basis for denial of the petition through 
fulfillment ofthree regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director must 
undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 For example, the record includes documentation indicating the Petitioner has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions at 
thel land thel I 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 2, 2024 In Re: 31524589 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a hydrologist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal and a motion. The matter is now before us on combined motions to 
reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A petitioner's motion to reconsider must be filed within 30 days of the decision that the motion seeks 
to reconsider. A petitioner's motion to reopen a proceeding must be filed within 30 days of the 
decision that the motion seeks to reopen, but we have the discretion to excuse a delay in filing if the 
petitioner demonstrates that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the petitioner's control. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
We dismissed the Petitioner ' s appeal on June 1, 2023, and issued the decision by mail. On the cover 
page of our dismissal notice, we advised the Petitioner: "The Form 1-290B website (www.uscis.gov /i-
290b) contains the latest information on fee, filing location, and other requirements. Please do not 
mail any motions directly to the AAO." We did not indicate that the Petitioner could file an appeal 
on our appellate decision, because the regulations make no provision to allow appeals of that kind. 
The Petitioner , however, prepared a new Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating that 
she was appealing our decision, and the Petitioner mailed the form directly to the Administrative 
Appeals Office. We returned the form to the Petitioner on July 7, 2023, stating that our appellate 
decision was not appealable, and that "[ a ]ppeals and motions must be filed in accordance with the 
instructions for Form I-290B." A benefit request, such as an appeal, that is not filed in accordance 
with the filing instructions will not retain its filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(C). 
The Petitioner then filed the same Form I-290B on July 17, 2023 at a facility equipped to accept such 
filings, and submitted a supplemental statement which we received on August 22, 2023. We treated 
this filing as a motion, and dismissed it because it was untimely. The deadline for filing a timely 
motion to reopen or reconsider was July 5, 2023, accounting for the 30-day filing period; three days 
for mailing; and an extra day to account for the Independence Day holiday on July 4th. See 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 103.S(a)(l )(i) and 103.8(b ). Also, the regulations make no provision for submitting a supplemental 
statement after a motion has been filed. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's July 17, 2023 filing as untimely on November 8, 2023. In our November 
2023 notice, we again advised the Petitioner that if she wished to file a motion to reopen or reconsider, 
she had 33 days in which to do so. 
The shipping label on the latest motion package shows that the Petitioner mailed her current motion 
on the day of the filing deadline, December 11, 2023. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) received the motion a week later, on December 18, 2023. The filing date is the date USCIS 
properly receives a filing in accordance with filing instructions. See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual 
B.6(C), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) does not permit any extension of the filing deadline for 
motions to reconsider. Therefore, we must dismiss the motion to reconsider as untimely. The same 
regulation states that untimely filing of a motion to reopen may be excused in our discretion where the 
petitioner demonstrates that the delay was reasonable and beyond the petitioner's control. The 
Petitioner acknowledged "the delay in sending this application," stating: "with the pace of work I 
currently have it was difficult for me to finish printing everything just in time." However, this claim 
is not sufficient to establish that the delay in filing was beyond her control. Therefore, we will dismiss 
the motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 02, 2024 In Re: 31222317 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a production designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
I at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that Petitioner received a bachelor's degree from the 
Iin 2014. She indicates her most recent employment as a "production assistant/student" at 
from September 2021 to May 2023, and previous self-employment in as 
a freelance production designer. 1 At the time of filing the petition in July 2023, the Petitioner was 
pursuing a master's degree in design for stage and film at 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only one (display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)) of the six claimed categories of evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains her qualification for the remaining five claimed criteria. In 
addition, the Petitioner submits new evidence. Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); 
Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted 
on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). Thus, we will only address the evidence 
and claims brought before the Director and contested on appeal. For the reasons discussed below, the 
Petitioner did not establish she meets at least three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See the Petitioner's F01m I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her receipt of prizes or awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.3 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on her receipt of a II I 2020 Regional Emmy Award, or for 
I ( awarded to the film and executive producers _I I and ______ for her role as production designer. The Petitioner previously 
submitted screenshots from the I I website I I, which provide 
background information regarding the I I awards and a list of the 2020 I I 
award nominees and recipients. In addition, the Petitioner provided a photograph of her Production 
Plaque with Regional Emmy Statuette, an item described on thel !website as available 
for purchase. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director found that the record did not demonstrate sufficiently that the Petitioner's I I 
award was nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field. Rather, according to 
documentation from the website of the awarding entity I I the award amounted to 
regional recognition, as its website indicates it represents the I I region, and "covers 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that thel Iaward "is [] granted by the National Academy 
of Television Arts & Sciences ("NATAS") through its ___________ __,Chapter" 
showing that I I are part of NAT AS, the organization that bestows the Emmys, an 
extensive range of awards for artistic and technical merit for the American and international television 
industry. 
First, in order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her own receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Althou h not addressed b the Director, the record shows that the Petitioner did not receive the 2020 
award; rather, the film I I its production company, 
and its executive producers, andI I are the named recipients. 4 The 
record indicates that subsequent to the 2020 I I award ceremony, and consistent with 
information on the organization's website regarding how "to purchase a Commemorative Emmy or a 
Recognition Award," the Petitioner purchased a Recognition Award for "individuals who made a 
significant contribution to a winning piece's award-worthiness but were not listed on the original 
entry." 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual.. 
3 Id. 
4 The 2020 Award Nominations and Emmy Recipients list also indicates thatl I 
received two other I forl I and and one nomination for 
3 
The background information regarding the annual 20201 Iindicates they were awarded 
on I I 2021, in over 120 categories with "over 1000 entries this year with 393 Emmy 
nominations." The submitted list of the 2020 Recipients indicates there were 
approximately 177 I I awarded, including for production design. If the organizers 
intended to recognize the Petitioner individually for her role as production designer ofI I it 
appears that they could have done so by bestowing her with an individual award. While we recognize 
that this role is essential in television production, it remains that the Petitioner was not the recipient of 
the 2020 Award and, therefore, the award does not satisfy the plain language of this 
regulation . 
Further, assuming that the Petitioner had established her receipt of the 2020 I IAward, we 
agree with the Director's determination that the record did not demonstrate sufficiently that the I I 
I !award was nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
Rather, according to documentation from website of the Cha ter, 
the award amounted to regional recognition, as the awarding organization represents the 
Dregion , and "covers _______________ 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that thel I award "is [] granted by the National Academy 
of Television Arts & Sciences ("NATAS") through its ____________ Chapter" 
showing that are art of NAT AS, the organization that bestows the Emmys. The 
record demonstrates that the are awards granted by the _________ 
Chapter ofNATAS. The Chapter is one of 19 regional chapters, 
and the I are distinct from the Emmy Award which corresponds with high-level awards 
such as the Oscar, Tony, or Grammy performing arts awards. The NATAS website reflects that 
"[e]ach Chapter awards Emmys in their region .. . . " A Few Words About Our Regional Chapters, 
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, https://theemmys.tv /chapters/ (accessed June 28, 
2024). 
Moreover , the Petitioner also rovided several articles dated or 12021 that mention that the 
won the I Iaward. An article from 
Whatwomenwant-mag.com provides that examines local government in l _____ 
in the 1970'sin the l 970's ______________ an article from Masrawy.com provides the ____ is awarded "for television production in several fields in the television industry." This 
evidence does not address the significance of the Petitioner's I I award, and does 
demonstrate, for example, that the I IAwards program enjoys the major media coverage 
or the same recognition as that documented for NATAS' Emmy awards. Therefore, the submitted 
articles are not sufficient to establish that thel I award winners receive a level of media 
coverage that is commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the 
entertainment industry. Additionally, the record lacks the criteria this regional entity relied upon to 
select the winners of this accolade. Based on the above, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion. 
4 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addressing whether the Petitioner meet this criterion, USCIS first determines whether the published 
material was related to the person and the person's specific work in the field for which classification 
is sought. 5 The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the 
field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's work or another organization and that 
organization's work. 6 USCIS then determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or other major media publication. 7 
The record includes an Internet Movie Database (IMDb) printout, indicating that the Petitioner 
worked as a production designer, art director or assistant art director on several ro·ects between 2012 
and 2023, including: I 1(2012); (2012 TV Series); 2012 • 
2013 TV Series • 2014 TV Series);
(2014 Short); 
__(2018); and (2020 Short). This document does not satisfy the criterion because 
it does not include information about the author. In addition, other than listing her role in the 
productions, the printout does not provide any additional information about her or her work as a 
production designer or art director. 
In addition, the record reflects the Petitioner provided 18 articles posted online. 8 We note that 12 of 
the articles do not contain the regulatory requirement of the "title, date, and author of the material." 
Specifically, articles posted on Egyptindependent.com, Broadcastprome.com , Dailynewsegypt.com, 
Almasryalyoum.com, and Youm7.com do not include the required authors of the material. 
Furthermore, an additional 7 articles do not indicate the publications, the date, and the author of the 
material. 
Thus, the Petitioner submitted 6 articles (Whatwomenwant-mag.com; Egypttoday.com; 
Masrawy.com; Shorouknews.com (2); Hebdo.ahram.org .eg) reflecting published material about the 
Petitioner relating to her work and including the required title, date, and author. In addition, the 
Petitioner provided average daily visitors, rankings, and percentiles of global Internet users from 
HypeStat: Whatwomenwant-mag .com (6,900, 653,842nd, .00014%); Egypttoday.com (11,200, 
793,898th, .0002273%); Masrawy .com (679,900, 41,33 lst, .0137923%); and Shorouknews .com 
(89,700, 486,000th, .00473%). She also submitted data from SimilarWeb which indicates that 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) . 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
8 We note that in response to the Director's re uest for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted an article titled 
ublished b vo a ela.com in 2023. In addition, she submitted an article titled I _______________ __, published by shoutoutla .com in 2023. As the Directo r 
noted, these articles were published subsequent to the filing of this petition in July 2023. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(I). As these published materials submitted in response to the RFE cannot 
establish the Petitioner' s eligibility as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate whether they otherwise satisfy the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
5 
Masrawy.com has a global rank of 4,179 and a country rank of 23, and Shorouknews.com has a global 
rank of 21,572 and a country rank of 212. 
However, the Petitioner has not explained the significance of the statistics and rankings and how such 
data supports a determination that these websites qualify as "major media" by having a high circulation 
or distribution relative to other online publications. 9 Further, based on the low figures, rankings, and 
percentiles , the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of the websites are tantamount to major media. 
Moreover, the record does not contain information relating to Hebdo.ahram.org .eg as a professional 
or major trade publication or other major medium. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted YouTube screenshots oftwo videos posted by land I___ 
from episodes of the show, and a third Y ouTube screen shot of a video posted by 
the Egyptian TV channel I I All three videos report on the 
Petitioner's receipt of a Iaward and are accompanied by a transcription to demonstrate 
published material about her relating to her work. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
show I Irepresents a major medium. In addition, the Petitioner noted that the 
Y ouTube channels of Iand ___________ have 6.94 million, 
380,000, and 125,000 subscribers, respectively. However, she did not demonstrate the significance of 
6.94 million, 380,000, or 125,000 subscribers on a YouTube channel. 1 ° For the reasons discussed 
above, the Petitioner did not show she meets every element of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 e .F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), users determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 11 users then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 12 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 13 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of support from experts in her field 
which are highly complimentary of her work and professional accomplishments. However, the 
Director determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that she has made original 
9 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that in evaluating whether a submitted publication 
is a professional publication , major trade publication , or other major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation , readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
10 The Petitioner provided screenshots and transcripts for two additional interviews with the Petitioner , but the screenshots, 
which are in the Arabic language, are not accompanied by an English language translation and the required certification 
from the translator. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that 
the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) . 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
6 
I contributions ofmajor significance in the field. He emphasized that while they discuss the Petitioner's 
contributions as applied to specific productions, such as and 
I the letters lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field of 
production design. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the documentation submitted, including 
"letters from professionals and experts in the industry" constitute "ample independent and objective 
evidence to substantiate [the Petitioner's] original contributions and the significan[t] impact ofher work." 
Upon review, we observe that the individuals who provided letters in support of the petition attest to 
the Petitioner's artistic and technical talents as a production designer, list her film credits, and contain 
assertions that she is highly regarded throughout the industry. We have no reason to question the 
credentials of the industry experts who provided letters in support of the petition or to doubt the 
credibility of their statements or the sincerity of their praise for the Petitioner's work. However, the 
letters focus on the Petitioner's contributions to specific projects rather than specifically articulating 
how her contributions are of major significance in the field and have impacted subsequent work. We 
address a representative sample of the letters below but have reviewed and considered each one . 
the co-producer and co-director ofl lindicates he worked closely with the 
Petitioner "to create stylized reenactments that helped shape the visual aesthetic of the film and bring 
the story to life" and her "eye for design, tenacious work ethic, and passion made her a valued member 
of the team ...." Screenwriter and director I l who worked with the Petitioner on a 
family planning awareness campaign in 2012, states that she "has a unique and sharp taste in location 
choices, sets, costumes, and props .... and developed a precise look and feel of the campaign film, 
which is exactly what I was looking for." Director who worked with the Petitioner 
on his second short filml lwhile they were students at 
states that she "interpreted my vision for the look and feel of the film" and "brought texture and 
familiarity to the stark imagery of the film." He calls her "one of the very top production designers 
and art directors in Egypt." I I a producer who worked with the Petitioner on several 
advertising campaigns between 2015 and 2018, describes the "identifiable features" of her production 
design as "precisely composed imagery, imbued with a wash ofone or two dominant colors, supported 
by iconic visual details that convey key elements of the story." 
While the letters submitted with the initial filing describe the Petitioner's original contributions to 
specific productions in some detail, they do not comment on how these contributions to individual 
projects were of major significance, such that they had a remarkable influence or impact in the field 
of production design. While Mr.I I asserts the Petitioner's standing in her field, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) does not indicate that attaining "one of the very top" is a relevant factor 
in determining whether an individual has made an original contribution of major significance in the 
field. Rather, a petitioner's overall standing in the field is evaluated in a final merits determination. 
The Petitioner provided additional expert testimony in response to the Director's RFE. In a second 
letter submitted in response to the RFE, Mr.I !relates his work in 2009 with the Petitioner, as 
Second Production Designer, on commercial advertising projects such as the,!.-_,._ 
TV commercial, the project, and the ______ __,campaign. He asserts 
that her "ability to evoke the essence of different places through her design" on his film ____ 
"was nothing short of astounding." He notes I I "was selected for the ____ 
competition at the 20141 I Film Festival" and won "several awards around the world." 
7 
In addition, Mr. I I broadly asserts that the Petitioner's "innovative approaches and fresh 
perspectives have had a notable influence on the field, leading to the development of new techniques 
and standards that benefit the entire American film and production industry," but he does not provide 
specific examples of original contributions and explain how they have been majorly significant in the 
field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 
F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). It is the Petitioner's burden to both specify her original contributions 
and to document the major significance of those contributions in the field. Without additional detail 
explaining her "innovative approaches" relating to new or innovative techniques or standards, the 
letter does not establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact in her field 
commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
Further, in a second letter submitted in response to the RFE, Mr. I Iwho produced 
credited the Petitioner with playing "a pivotal role" in "designing the sets and costumes, meticulously 
selecting color palettes, and ensuring historical accuracy" of I I which "went on to receive 
four Emmy nominations I IChapter) winning three." While D I I received recognition from film festivals and I received several I I 
this recognition has not been linked to the Petitioner's production design contributions to the movies 
and does not establish how those contributions were of "major significance in the field" consistent 
with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Overall, the letters submitted in response to the RFE pointed to awards or award nominations received 
by films on which the Petitioner worked, and her overall reputation in her field, but do not contain 
specific, detailed information identifying or explaining the unusual influence her work has had in her 
field. However, we emphasize that evidence related to awards, award nominations, and published 
materials concerning the Petitioner's work has been considered under the appropriate criteria. None 
of that evidence specifically recognizes the Petitioner for making an original contribution of major 
significance that has impacted or influenced her field, nor does the record sufficiently establish a 
connection between that evidence and the significance of any original contributions she has made to 
the field of production design. 
Finally, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted her proposed professional plan, 
evidence of claimed designs for the I !Music Festival stage and a 20191 Iphoto 
shoot event, and her invitations to speak atl land the I lin Egypt. She maintains on 
appeal that her design for the mesic festival stage and photo shoot event demonstrate the "originality" 
ofher work, while her speaking invitations show her "broad influence." However, she does not further 
elaborate, specifically identify her contributions, or explain their "originality" or "broad influence." 
Unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 
(BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief: motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Regardless, simply making contributions is not sufficient to meet 
this criterion unless the Petitioner shows those contributions have been majorly significantly in the 
field. 14 For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner 
has not shown she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
14 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (evidence that the person's work was funded, patented, or 
published while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work 
is of major significance in the field). 
8 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The petitioner must establish performance in a leading or critical role for an organization, 
establishment, or division or department of an organization or establishment, and the petitioner must 
demonstrate whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which the 
person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 15 The Petitioner 
maintains eligibility for this criterion based on her role as a production designer for the short films 
I landl I 
The Director determined that the record does not reflect that a short film is an "organization or 
establishment." Rather, the record reflects that I I is the property of 
and I I is a student production of the The record does 
not contain a letter from ________ detailing how the Petitioner's role was leading or 
critical to the organization as a whole or its distinguished reputation. In two letters, Mr. I Ico­
producer and co-director of I I indicated that the Petitioner's contributions as a production 
designer "were significant" and "played a pivotal role in establishing the visual style of the film." 
Regarding I I in two letters, Mr. I I states that the Petitioner's contribution as the 
film's production designer was "superb," "a key part of the success" of the film, and "elevated the 
storytelling." The record does not contain a letter from ___________ that would 
establish her leading or critical role with that organization or its distinguished reputation. 
In sum, the Petitioner did not establish how the evidence shows that in her position as a production 
designer for the movies I I and I I resulted in a leading or critical role for 
_______ or the I Inor does it establish their 
distinguished reputations. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish she satisfies the four categories ofevidence discussed above. Although 
the Petitioner also argues eligibility for the commercial successes criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve these issues. 16 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
15 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
16 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is othe1wise ineligible). 
9 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 3, 2024 InRe: 31672763 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a postdoctoral research fellow, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the required initial evidentiary criteria, he did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field 
of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed this petition in August 2023. He is presently engaged as a postdoctoral research 
fellow in a biomedical engineering laboratory at a university located in Maryland and intends to 
continue pursuing his career there. In a personal statement submitted in response to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE) he indicated that he conducts "[r]]esearch in the field of optical technology, 
encompassing areas such as optical imaging, measurement, and calibration." In 2019, he obtained a 
Ph.D. in the field from a university abroad. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of those 
criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scientific accomplishments of major significance 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Before the 
Director and on appeal the Petitioner does not assert, nor does the record establish that he has met 
other criteria. 
The Director denied the pet1t10n, concluding the record did not show he warranted favorable 
consideration in a final merits determination based on the totality of the evidence. As the Petitioner 
has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should 
then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the 
petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of 
2 
the immigrant classification). In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues the Director's decision "presented a nonspecific, boilerplate 
disclaimer that the [ final merits determination] was based on the 'totality of the record,' the structure 
of the final merits determination suggests otherwise." The Petitioner alleges that because the Director 
organized his final merits discussion of the evidence in a sequential order similar to when he reviewed 
the evidence to determine that he met the plain language of three criteria, that he erred by "isolat[ing] 
evidence related to [each] particular section" and did not collectively consider the evidence in 
determining that he did not meet the regulatory definitions for extraordinary ability at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3). Specifically, the Petitioner contends the Director failed to correctly analyze the 
evidence, including his testimonial letters, publication record, citation history, notable citations by 
others, inventions, research funding, his academic and experiential credentials, and his peer review of 
the work of others. 
We have reviewed the Petitioner's initial submission, his response and additional documentation from 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Director's decision, the Petitioner's appeal brief and 
supporting documentation about his employer, and the process by which peer reviewers are selected 
by certain journals to review the work of others. We do not concur with the Petitioner's contentions, 
and we adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872,874 (BIA 
1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting 
and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has 
squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts 
in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give 
"individualized consideration " to the case). Here, the decision reflects the Director thoroughly 
reviewed the record and correctly and sufficiently articulated reasons why the Petitioner's evidence 
and assertions of eligibility fell short in demonstrating that he meets the requirements for classification 
as an individual with extraordinary ability in the sciences. 
For example, relating to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in the final merits 
determination, an evaluation of the citations of others to a petitioner's published work can be relevant 
to the final merits determination of whether a petitioner is at the very top of their field of endeavor. 
See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 1 In evaluating this evidence, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner had published articles in the field of biomedical imaging and medical science, from 201 7 
thru 2022, and took note of the Petitioner's assertion that his published work count in 2020 and 2022 
reached the level of extraordinary ability, as compared to others in the field. However, he concluded 
that the Petitioner's citation volume was not indicative of his claimed extraordinary ability, or that he 
has risen to the top of the field. 
The Director observed that the highest cited articles provided through the Petitioner's evidence 
occurred prior to receiving his Ph.D. in 2019. The Director also noticed, based on their review of the 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 (noting that a petitioner may provide evidence that their total rate of 
citation to their body of published work is high relative to others in the field such as the person has a high h-index for the 
field. Depending on the field and comparative data, such evidence may indicate a person's overall standing for the purpose 
of demonstrating that the person is among the small percentage at the top of the field and enjoys sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
articles published by the Petitioner, that for the year 2022, the Petitioner had a current citation count 
of zero across all publications, with the highest publication from the 2020 article,! 
I Ipublished in Optics & Laser Technology _D 2020. With his last publication in 2022, the Petitioner had an h-index of 8 in that year . The 
Director explained that the biomedical imaging and medical researchers at the top of the field, and 
citation count leaders had over 90,000 and 70,000 citations of their work, and h-index ratings in the 
70's, 60's and 30's, with multiple articles published in the years of 2022 and 2023 that had l,000's of 
citations. The h-index in the field shows the activeness of the researcher and the importance of the 
research to the field, or community of publications listed in the category of publications, such as the 
Petitioner's field ofbiomedical imaging. See Hirsch, J, An Index to Quantify an Individual's Scient[fic 
Research Output, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 
Vol. 102, Iss. 46, p. 16569 (2005). Based in part on this analysis, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner's record ofcitation did not substantiate ofhis assertion that his published works in 2020 and 
2022 reached the level of extraordinary ability, as compared to others in the field. Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. at 376. 
On appeal, the Petitioner takes issue with the Director's observation that the Petitioner's most cited 
articles were published before he obtained his Ph.D., noting that Dr. Albert Einstein's "seminal paper 
on special relativity was published in 1905, prior to the awarding ofhis doctorate in 1906." He further 
asserts "there is no educational requirement for the [ extraordinary ability] classification," contending 
that by making this observation the Director "would arbitrarily impose such a standard." In support 
of this assertion he cites to Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994). In contrast to the 
broad precedential authority ofthe case law of a United States circuit court, we are not bound to follow 
the published decision of a United States district court in matters arising even within the same 
district. See K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. at 719-20. Although the reasoning underlying a district judge's 
decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us, the analysis does not have to 
be followed as a matter of law. Id. For the sake of brevity, we will not analyze or discuss why the 
holdings in Buletini do not support the Petitioner's arguments. In matters like this one, where USCIS 
has provided a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will not be 
required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes. Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 
119, 123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir.1992); see also 
Kazemzadeh v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. U.S. INS, 984 
F.2d 105, 107 (4th Cir. 1993). 
We disagree that the Director improperly imposed an educational requirement within their final merits 
determination analysis of this aspect of the Petitioner's evidence. Rather, the Director analyzed the 
Petitioner's published work from 2017 through 2022 within the context of the Petitioner's academic 
and experiential credentials as presented through the evidence, noting, among other things, that his 
most cited works were published when he was a doctoral student, that during 2022 he had a zero 
citation count across all publications, and that his h-index in 2022 and 2023 was 8, while other 
researchers in his field had h-index ratings that far exceeded his within the same time period -having 
published articles that garnered 1,000s of citations. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that his 
"publication and citation record show that he has extraordinary ability in the field of optics, [ and] he 
is one of the small percentage of scientists who have risen to the top of his field." He reiterates the 
same or similar arguments on appeal that the Director considered in denying the petition, but he does 
not adequately explain how the Director erred in their analysis of the Petitioner's citation record. We 
4 
conclude the Petitioner did not submit evidence sufficient to show that his authorships and overall 
publication record favorably compares to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Based on our review of the evidence and the Director's decision we conclude that the Director 
thoroughly examined and considered the submitted documentation; he discussed various aspects of 
the evidence individually, but collectively considered the entire record to ultimately determine that the 
Petitioner is not an individual of extraordinary ability. To determine whether a petitioner has 
established eligibility for a requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS must 
examine each piece of evidence -both individually and within the context of the entire record -for 
relevance, probative value, and credibility. Matter of Chawathe, supra. While the Petitioner may 
disagree with aspects of the Director's analysis of the evidence, he has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that the Director neglected to collectively consider the record under the preponderance ofthe evidence 
standard, or that he otherwise erred as a matter of law or policy in denying the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ajf'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the upper 
echelon in his field. The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 3, 2024 In Re: 31839590 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a project manager who "intend[s] to work in the field of manufacturing eco-friendly 
products," seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We dismissed 
a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits letters from former officials of a Russian government ministry and 
an environmental organization. The Petitioner asserts that these new facts establish eligibility by 
addressing deficiencies in his prior evidence. 
A petitioner seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability may establish eligibility by 
meeting at least three often criteria specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and by showing through a final 
merits determination that the record as a whole establishes the individual's sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Petitioner had claimed to meet four of the initial criteria, relating to nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor; membership in associations that 
require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts; published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media; and original contributions of major significance in the field. The Director determined that the 
Petitioner had not satisfied any ofthe claimed criteria. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, agreeing with the Director that the Petitioner had not satisfied the 
criteria relating to prizes and memberships. We reserved the remaining two criteria, because discussion 
ofthose last two criteria could not alter the outcome ofthe appeal. 1 We did not conduct a full final merits 
determination, but we briefly stated that the record "does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought." 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the two criteria that we discussed in our appellate decision. As 
discussed below, we conclude that the new evidence does not overcome our prior conclusions. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy the requirements of this criterion through his receipt of a Certificate 
of Merit from The Director, in denying the 
petition, concluded that the Petitioner had not established that the certificate is nationally or 
internationally recognized, and had not established the criteria for the certificate. 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that a letter in the record "provides some background 
information, such as the evaluating criteria," but we concluded that "the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
the recognition of the award beyond the 
On motion, the Petitioner states: "The Certificate of Merit is the highest praise from the ___ 
for an employee who has worked in the 
Ministry for less than 15 years." This assertion does not tend to support the Petitioner's claim of 
eligibility. An award available only to persons within a single employer may have little national or 
international recognition. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l). The burden is on the 
Petitioner to establish that the certificate is recognized nationally or internationally, rather than within 
one ministry of the Russian government. 
The Petitioner submits a letter from the former chairperson of the comm1ss10n that issued the 
certificate to the Petitioner. The letter discusses the criteria for the certificate, but we already 
acknowledged those criteria in our appellate decision. The new letter from a former Ministry official 
indicates that "[t]hese awards have weight within the work of the Ministry," but does not establish 
wider recognition of the awards. 
1 See INS v. Bagamashad. 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
2 
The Petitioner's motion does not address or overcome our conclusions regarding the recognition of 
the certificate beyond the Petitioner's employer. The Petitioner has not established that the certificate, 
which he says is only available to certain employees of the Ministry, is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner documented his membership in the Moscow Regional Organization of the All-Russian 
Society for the Protection of Nature. A letter from a member of the organization stated that 
membership is open to "[p]]ersons who make obvious contribution to the development and 
popularization of the protection of nature in the territory of the Russian Federation," and who submit 
"documents that confirm the professional activities of the applicant and his/her contribution to the 
development and popularization of the protection of nature in the territory of the Russian Federation." 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. In our dismissal notice, we agreed with the Director's conclusions. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a letter from the regional organization's deputy chairperson, "to 
show the criteria for joining" that organization. The letter from that official identified types of 
activities that the Petitioner had documented, such as "[p]]ublishing . . . activities on issues of 
environmental management and environmental protection, environmental education and public 
awareness" and "[a]ctivities aimed at developing and implementing socially significant programs, 
projects and activities in the field of environmental protection and rational use of natural resources." 
While the letter identifies a number of activities, it does not state that the identified activities are 
inherently outstanding achievements, or that the association otherwise requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. The letter also does not demonstrate that recognized national or 
international experts judge membership applications. As we observed in our appellate decision, the 
titles of the individuals who judge those applications are not evidence of national or international 
recognition. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner's new evidence does not overcome our previous 
conclusions about the Petitioner's award and his membership in an association. The Petitioner, on motion, 
does not address our general conclusion that the record does not establish sustained national or 
international acclaim as the statute and regulations require. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. Therefore, we will dismiss the motion. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 3, 2024 In Re: 31524324 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a barista, seeks classification under the employment-based , first-preference (EB-1) 
immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . To qualify for this category, a petitioner 
must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" 
of recognized achievements in their field. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only two of ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant category -one 
less than required. The Director also found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's required intent to 
continue working in his field in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal and his 
following eight motions to reopen. The matter returns to us on his ninth motion to reopen. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts, supported by documentary evidence, and address "the latest 
decision in the proceeding ." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) , (2). We may grant a motion meeting these 
requirement s and demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit. In contrast, we must dismiss a 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen includes evidence but, contrary to regulations , the motion does not 
address the latest decision in the proceeding. The filing contains copies of website printouts and 
documents regarding Sprudge but these materials purportedly support an initial evidentiary criterion 
requiring a potential noncitizen with extraordinary ability to show published materials about them in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
latest decision in the proceeding , however, was dismissed since the motion did not address the latest 
decision in the proceeding . 
Even if the documentation the Petitioner submits on motion addressed the prior decision, which in this 
case they do not, they do not sufficiently satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . We 
previously determined on motion that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence sufficient to establish 
that he met the published material criterion. As previously noted, although the documentation 
submitted on motion provides some information and rankings for Sprudge, the Petitioner does not 
establish the relevance of the visitor and viewing numbers, and does not contextualize the statistics, 
indicate its significance, or elaborate on how that information could establish that the website is the 
type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Furthermore, USCIS need not rely 
on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. 
CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the 
cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of major media). 
The Petitioner has been issued a detailed appellate decision specifically addressing matters concerning 
the Petitioner's statutory eligibility. That decision was followed by a series of motions, all of which 
were dismissed after careful review of the documents submitted on motion. Here, the Petitioner once 
again submits documents that were addressed and deemed to be insufficient. Moreover, the 
Petitioner's motion does not address the latest decision in the proceeding. We must therefore dismiss 
it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 3, 2024 In Re: 31523849 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish her qualification as an individual of extraordinary ability. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. 
The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
The Director determined the Petitioner satisfied only one (display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)) 
of the eight claimed categories of evidence. In our decision, we adopted and affirmed the Director's 
decision. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 
230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has 
been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. 
INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may 
adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
Moreover, we indicated the Petitioner only challenged six of those criteria and explained why she did 
satisfy any of them, including her failure to explain and support her assertions of the Director applying 
the wrong standard and not supporting his conclusions, her failure to address the evidentiary 
deficiencies identified by the Director, and her failure to provide independent, objective evidence to 
support counsel's assertions . 
On motion, the Petitioner challenges our decision relating to three of the criteria. Regarding the 
membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner references the bylaws for the 
Theater Union of Moldova (UNITEM) and claims that "[i]t is reasonable to conclude that the 
association is professional." Here, the Petitioner does not provide new facts, supported by 
documentary evidence, as required for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Instead, the 
Petitioner cites to previously submitted bylaws. Moreover, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how 
we incorrectly applied law or policy, as required for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). Rather, the Petitioner argues the professional nature ofUNITEM. 
As explained in our prior decision, even if the Petitioner established the professional status of 
UNITEM, the Petitioner did not show how this establishes her eligibility for the membership criterion, 
which requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." The professional position 
of the association is not a determining factor for this criterion. Regardless, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that membership with UNITEM requires outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts, consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
As it relates to the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner argues we 
conducted a "flawed 'analysis'" of her use of the word "or." Furthermore, the Petitioner claims that 
we rejected or ignored corroborating evidence. In our decision, we indicated the Petitioner stated on 
appeal that she participated in a fashion project as a jury member or a makeup artist and relied upon 
the evidence previously provided, including a letter from the founder of the I I 
Furthermore, we concluded that it was unclear whether the Petitioner served in a jury role or a makeup 
artist role. In addition, we indicated that the Petitioner did not address the evidentiary deficiencies 
identified by the Director. Specifically, the Director pointed out the initial letter did not include a date 
and did not identify the specific dates of the judging events, who was judged, and whether the judging 
work was in the same or an allied field. Moreover, in response to the Director's request for evidence, 
the Director indicated that the photographs did not establish the dates, places, and individuals judged, 
along with other evidentiary deficiencies. 
On motion, the Petitioner does not provide new facts, supported by documentary evidence, as required 
for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Instead, the Petitioner references previously 
submitted documentation, discussed above. Further, the Petitioner does not establish how we 
incorrectly applied law or policy, as required for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Although the Petitioner alleges our "flawed 'analysis,"' the Petitioner does not contest that she used 
"or" in her appellate brief, nor does she further respond to her statement. Instead, the Petitioner quotes 
from the founder's letter and references the submission of photos and samples of jury paperwork. 
However, the Petitioner does not address the numerous evidentiary deficiencies, which does not 
demonstrate probative and credible evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of 
others, consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
Finally, as it pertains to the high salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner 
contends that we "erred in evaluation of the opinion of expert of [L-G-]" and did not consider the 
Petitioner's business activities and achievements. Again, the Petitioner does not provide new facts, 
supported by documentary evidence, as required for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not show how we incorrectly applied law or policy, as required for a 
motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In our previous decision, we concluded that 
L-G-'s letter did not overcome the deficiencies identified by the Director, including the failure to 
2 
corroborate the Petitioner's annual income with evidence such as payroll, bank, or tax statements, as 
well as documentation explaining how the general category of "artists/entertainment and recreation" 
is the comparative "best match" for the Petitioner's occupation and field. Furthermore, we determined 
the letter did not describe how she has a "personal" and "working" knowledge of average salaries for 
makeup artists in Moldova. 
The Petitioner's motion does not contest any ofour issues with L-G-'s letter, nor does it show how we 
erred as a matter of law or policy. Instead, the Petitioner claims the absence of a comprehensive 
statistical survey in Moldova and highlights L-G-' s education and experience credentials. As the 
Petitioner did not overcome the deficiencies in L-G-'s letter, the Petitioner did not provide probative 
and credible evidence demonstrating that she commands a high salary in relation to others, consistent 
with the regulatory criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has not met the requirements for a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider, 
we will dismiss both motions. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 5, 2024 In Re: 31112406 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). He claims to be "an Artist 
Manager of extraordinary ability." This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available 
to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification through presentation ofevidence ofeither a one­
time achievement or showing that he meets at least three ofthe alternative evidentiary criteria listed under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of 
evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish he had received a major, internationally 
recognized award. On appeal, the Petitioner has not specifically challenged this finding, he has 
therefore waived this claim. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). As 
such, to meet the initial evidentiary requirements, the Petitioner must present evidence that satisfies at 
least three of the regulatory criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In the decision denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had satisfied one criterion by submitting 
"[p]]ublished material about [him] in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
relating to [his] work in the field for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets two additional evidentiary criteria, which we will 
discuss below. 1 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner offers evidence showing that he is the founder and chief executive officer (CEO) ofI 2 a co-owner ofI Iand the president ofI I In a 
July 2023 letter, the Petitioner's counsel explained that after founding I I the Petitioner 
1 In the denial, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence satisfying the awards and prizes 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), and the commercial successes in the performing arts criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x). On appeal, the Petitioner has not specifically challenged these findings, he has therefore waived these 
claims. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner explains that I I"specializes in solely representing songwriters/producers" and is 
"concerned only with the publishing rights of its clients and building song catalogues which can ultimately be sold as a 
whole to music publishers." 
2 
"expanded to include co-ownership of two music publishing companies, the record 
label and music publisher ... and the music publisher! I 
The Director determined that while the Petitioner had submitted materials showing that "his roles in 
these organizations [are] both leading and critical," he did not provide sufficient "objective, 
documentary evidence [that] demonstrates that either organization has a distinguished reputation." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence showing that I I qualifies as an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. Specifically, he offers 
documentation confirming that I I has received industry certifications, including a RIAA 
platinum certificate that recognizes the sale of more than 1,000,000 copies of a single, a RIAA gold 
certificate that recognizes the sale ofmore than 500,000 copies of another single, and a BPI certificate 
that recognizes the sale of more than 600,000 copies of a third single. Online materials indicate that 
the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) is a trade organization in the United States 
and its "Gold & Platinum Awards [represent] a pinnacle of success in the music industry"; and that 
the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) is a trade organization in the United Kingdom that organizes 
the BRIT Award shows and its members account for 85% of all music sold in the United Kingdom. 
In addition to its receipt of certificates, the record includes letters from individuals in the music 
industry discussing I I distinguished reputation. For example, the chief operating officer 
(COO) of I I states that I J"is one of the most distinguished management 
companies in the music industry based on the BRIT A ward and Grammy Award nominations and the 
commercial success I I has helped [its] clients achieve."3 The CEO of 
provides thatl Ihas a distinguished reputation "based on the sheer amount of commercial 
and critical success it has achieved for its clients and the recognition it has received from the most 
powerful executives in the music industry." The CEO of I I further notes that I Irepresents clients who "have written and produced records that have generated billions of 
streams and thus millions of dollars in revenue." Other letters similarly confirm the distinguished 
reputation ofl Iin the music industry. 
Based on the certificates and recognition that has received from trade organizations as 
well as letters that describe ____ accomplishments, the Petitioner has sufficiently 
demonstrated thatl !qualifies as an organization that has a distinguished reputation. As such, 
the Petitioner, as I Ifounder and CEO, has shown to be an individual who has performed 
in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, 
satisfying the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion. The evidence, however, is 
insufficient to show that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
his services as an artist manager, in relation to others in the field. 
3 The Petitioner has presented published materials and letters from individuals in the music industry indicating that 
clients include! land I I musical artists, as well asl and __ 
songwriters and producers who have produced hit singles. 
3 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner has offered a July 2023 letter from 
treasurer/accountant, indicating that he will receive "Fee: $500,000 -$1.5 million" for the position of 
"artist manager." He has also provided a July 2023 letter from a certified public accountant, listing 
his "accumulated net income" and "accumulated gross income" between 2020 and 2022, and noting 
his ownershi interests in 
In addition, the 
Petitioner's 2021 and 2022 tax returns, the most recent tax filings in the record, indicate that his income 
in these years comprised of "wages, salaries, tips, etc." as well as earnings for owning partnerships 
and S corporations. Specifically, his tax returns show that in 2021, he earned $130,500 in "wages, 
salaries, tips, etc." while living inl ICalifornia, and that in 2022, he earned $75,000 "wages, 
salaries, tips, etc." while living inl Florida.4 His tax filings indicate 
that in 2021 and 2022, he received additional income based on his ownership interests in I 
The evidence thus shows that the Petitioner's 2021 and 2022 income included compensation for 
his work as an artist manager -in the form of "wages, salaries, tips, etc." -as well as compensation 
for owning businesses -in the form of income from partnerships and S corporations. 5 
The Petitioner has not shown that he can rely on his total income, which includes income for owning 
businesses, to establish that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for his work as an artist manager, in the field of artist management. On appeal, pointing to the July 
2023 letter from _______ ~treasurer/accountant, the Petitioner argues that he "receives a 
salary in excess of $500,000 per year for his position as an artist manager." The record reveals that I is one of the businesses he owns. His 2021 and 2022 tax filings do not support 
the contention that his salary as an artist manager has been more than $500,000 per year. Rather, the 
tax filings list $130,500 as his "wages, salaries, tips, etc." in 2021 and $75,000 as his "wages, salaries, 
tips, etc." in 2022. The Petitioner has not established that his additional income derived from owning 
businesses can be considered as his salary or remuneration for his work as an artist manager. 
As comparative evidence, the Petitioner submits an online printout from the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, indicating that as ofMay 2022, the mean annual wage ofan "agent[] and business manager[] 
of artists, performers, and athletes" was $120,000; an individual earning $161,340 would be at the 
75th percentile of earning in the profession; and an individual earning $239,200 would be at the 90th 
percentile of earning in the profession. The rintout further indicates that the annual mean wage for 
the profession was $142,040 in the California area, and $108,490 
in the Florida, area. The Petitioner's 2021 and 2022 "wages, 
salaries, tips, etc." of $130,500 and $75,000, which are below the annual mean wage figures in the 
relevant locations, are insufficient to confirm that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services as an artist manager, in relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner offers copies of invoices that his businesses issued to clients to collect 
4 The record lacks Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Forms W-2 that list the Petitioner's employer(s) during 2021 and 2022. 
5 We are assuming in this decision that the Petitioner's "wages, salaries, tips, etc." pertain to his work as an a1iist manager. 
As the Director pointed out in the denial decision, however, the Petitioner has held other positions in his businesses, 
including the positions ofpresident and CEO. The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence differentiating between 
his income for working as an artist manager and his income for holding other executive positions. 
4 I 
commissions and other fees. These invoices might show the potential revenue of the businesses, but 
they do not specifically show the salary or remuneration of the Petitioner, based on his work as an 
artist manager. A corporation and an individual are two separate legal entities. See Matter ofSojfici, 
22 T&N Dec. 158, 162 (Comm'r 1998). This is true even if the individual is the sole shareholder of 
the business. See id. at 161-63. As such, potential revenue of a business, as reflected in its invoices, 
is not the same as the salary or remuneration the business owner might receive. 
Based on the tax filings as well as other income-related documentation in the record, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently shown that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services as an artist manager, in relation to others in the field. As such, he has not 
satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCrS) has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, 
the prior approval does not preclude users from denying an immigrant visa petition, which is 
adjudicated based on a different standard, statute, regulations, and case law. Many immigrant petitions 
are denied after users approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'l v. Mayorkas, 
20-cv-08869-JCS, 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. Jul. 22, 2021); Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 
F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dep 't ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41, 42 (2d 
Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the offices adjudicating 
nonimmigrant visa petitions, is comparable to the relationship between a court ofappeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. Mar. 15, 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we note that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of artist management. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
6 On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has met this criterion because the Director previously concluded that he had met 
this criterion in another petition filing. We are not bound to a finding that the Director made in another petition. See La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. Mar. 15, 2000). Rather, as we have done 
in this case, we must consider the evidence before us when deciding whether the Petitioner has satisfied a particular 
criterion. 
5 
has established that he contributed to the success of his businesses and to the success ofthe businesses' 
clients. But he has not shown that his accomplishments rise to the required level of sustained national 
or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also Section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility to be classified as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field of artist management. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 5, 2024 In Re: 31284067 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sports event planner, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
also allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability based on his skills and experience as 
an athlete and sports planner. The record indicates that the Petitioner's initial experiences as an athlete 
who competed in cycling races segued to other athletic pursuits that entailed simultaneously competing 
in and organizing sporting events. The Petitioner started his sports event planning career as founder 
of the _________ which he used to organize the first cycling race in I I in 
2012 and through which he helped organize other bicycle races, such as the Open Championship, 
which was held in 2017 in I I the capital ofI I Then, after participating in multiple 
triathlons such as the widely recognized Ironman, the Petitioner began developing the triathlon 
competition in his home country through the ______________ an organization 
that the Petitioner helped found and run, serving as the organization's vice president. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner states that he intends to use his experience as an athlete to "inform his approach to 
organizing and planning sporting events." Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets the five 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) -(v) and (viii). 1 Further, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
1 The Petitioner originally claimed that in addition to the criteria listed above, he also met the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (ix). Because the Petitioner has not addressed the Director's adverse findings regarding these two 
criteria on appeal, both criteria are deemed waived in the adjudication of this petition. See US v. Pilati, 627 F.3d 1360, 
1365 (11th Cir. 2010) (finding that an issue not raised on appeal to the district court are deemed waived); see also Rizk v. 
Holder, 629 F .3d 1083, 1091 n.3 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding that issues not raised in a brief are deemed waived). 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(4), the Petitioner also claims that he has submitted evidence that is comparable to the 
criteria in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that he met any ofthe claimed criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for the 
requested classification. He contends that the Director overlooked or disregarded certain evidence in 
a way that is not consistent with the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services policy. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least three of the claimed criteria. Namely, 
the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that he met the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
(v), and (viii). 
First, we will address the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence 
demonstrating a petitioner's participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or an allied field. 
Evidence submitted in support of this criterion includes an online article which discusses the 
Petitioner's role "as the chief judge" ofa duathlon competition held in 2015 in I The article 
also describes the Petitioner as "a famous athlete, enthusiast, organizer of numerous competitions, 
[ and] president of the _________ and includes a quote from the Petitioner in which 
he explained that his role as chief judge involved disqualifying participants in the competition. The 
Petitioner also provided a letter from _____ president of theI lwho described the Petitioner as "the biggest expert in triathlon in the entire country" and 
stated that the Petitioner assumed the role of a judge in three international triathlon competitions that 
took place in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Based on this evidence, the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner also provided documentation to show that he satisfied the requirements of the criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence showing that the Petitioner made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. Documents showing that the Petitioner met this 
criterion include an article that credits the Petitioner with bringing about change in "the way of life of 
the I Ipeople" by opening a running school called _______ which is described as 
"the central company" for organizing various athletic events that include running, cycling, and 
triathlon competitions. Another article lists the Petitioner as "one of the founders of triathlon in 
I; a third article refers to the Petitioner's position as vice president of thel I 
and lists the federation as organizer of the first aquathlon to be held in ___ In a letter from the CEO ofl Ia business located in Russia, the Petitioner 
was recognized for his "iconic status as an event planner in his home country" ofl Iwhere 
he is credited with "shap[ing] the development of the sport of triathlon and the industry." The 
Petitioner also provided an _____________ documenting his methodology in a 
seven-week training course for distance running. Based on this evidence, the Petitioner has satisfied 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Lastly, we will discuss the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires a showing of 
the Petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. Evidence pertaining to this criterion includes the previously mentioned letter from 
Mr. I I who discussed the Petitioner's "critical role in the development of triathlon in I I as well as in the development of the 
pointing out that this organization is "recognized as an official federation by the National Olympic 
3 
Committee and the International Triathlon Union." Mr.I I highlighted the Petitioner was one 
of the co-founders of the organization and was deemed to have "the most expertise, training, and 
knowledge pertinent [sic] triathlon, event organizing, and international standards." Mr.I I also 
stated that during the organization's initial years of existence, the Petitioner, "as our Vice President, 
undoubtedly carried the main load and did most of the work: organizing events, working on business 
partnerships, and so on." The Petitioner also provided letters stating that he was responsible for 
forging partnerships between his company, and various charitable organizations, such 
the whose head credited the Petitioner with 
organizing "the largest charitable running event" in _______ The same individual, 
together with the Director of the State Agency for Environmental Protection of Forestry issued an 
official letter of appreciation to the Petitioner, thanking him for "holding the first ever international 
charity race" for the conservation ofthe I I In light of the evidence submitted, we find that 
the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
With eligibility under the three criteria discussed above, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two­
step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. As noted above, 
where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115, 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3) .. The Director did not reach a finding 
on the final merits, and we decline to make the final merits determination in the first instance. We 
will therefore remand the matter. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 05, 2024 In Re: 30556460 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a voice actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not satisfy 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the four claimed 
categories of evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for the four previously 
claimed criteria. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not establish he meets at least 
three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 1 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 2 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 3 
The Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based upon an article dated 2016 posted 
on tvefamosos.uol.com.br. The article, however, does not reflect published material about the 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
2 
Petitioner relating to his work. Instead, the article is about the an reaction of Brazilian fans to a 
change in the dubbers for the sixth season of the HBO series The article mentions 
the Petitioner was the dubbing director for the former studio, and quotes him as stating 
that he "gets complaints from the audience about the dubbing." The person and the person's work 
need not be the only subject ofthe material; published material that covers a broader topic but includes 
a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the 
work may be considered material about the person relating to the person's work. 4 See also, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Here, the article reports on the show with a 
brief mention of the Petitioner and therefore, does not demonstrate published material about him. 
The Petitioner also did not demonstrate the article was published in a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership 
(for major trade publications and other major media). 5 Although the Petitioner submitted online traffic 
and rankings from Similar Web for uol.com.br, he did not provide documentation to establish the major 
media status of the website that published the article, tvefamosos.uol.com.br. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted summaries of the films _________ and the 
puppet theater production ____________ that accompanied the announcement of 
their showing in the publications oparana.com.br, vivoplay.com.br, cbtij.org.br, and 
diariogaucho.clierbs.com.br. While the articles identify the Petitioner as a voice actor on these 
projects, they are not articles about him but rather summaries of the productions he dubbed. Again, 
articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. In addition, these articles 
do not include the required authors of the material. 6 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a radiofobia.com.br screenshot of a video posted by I I from 
"Almir Marques Interviews." The screenshot indicates that the video reflected an interview of the 
Petitioner broadcasted on 93 FM de Rio do Sul, Santa Catarina. However, the Petitioner did not 
provide a transcription of the video demonstrating published material about him relating to his work. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the show "Almir Marques Interviews" represents a 
major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets every element of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
USCIS determines whether the person has enjoyed commercial successes in the performing arts. 7 The 
Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his having dubbed characters in the Portuguese 
Brazilian-language versions of productions, including: I I(2003) I 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5Id. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
3 I 
_________ 1(2011-2016) (TV series 
1(2003-20 09)( animated TV series 
2003-2009); I I(2011-2016 TV series 
I(2000-2003) (Animated TV series 
I (2013-2021) (TV senes 
1(2001-2012) (animated TV seriesl and 
1(2005-2021) (TV series I The Petitioner submitted information from IMDb 
for some of these productions showing their gross worldwide revenue. 8 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. 9 Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions 
would be insufficient, in and ofitself, to meet this criterion. 10 The evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in 
similar pursuits in the performing arts. 1 1 
While the Petitioner has performed as a voice actor for TV series and films, he has not shown that the 
success of those motion picture and television productions was attributable to his specific work as a 
voice actor. Furthermore, he has not demonstrated that his television or film voice acting 
performances have attracted substantial audiences or that his dubbing work generated significant sales. 
As the Director stated, in order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales 
and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. Here, the record does not include evidence identifying the Petitioner 
as having commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is the evidence sufficient to 
demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned television and film productions in 
which he performed were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. Without additional evidence, the 
Petitioner did not establish he has achieved commercial successes. 
8 We note that because there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site, 
we will not assign weight to information from imdb.com. Cf Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008) (finding that another open, user-edited internet site, Wikipedia, lacks reliability of the content). See also 
imdb.com: 
Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability: The IMDB Services and all information, content, 
materials, products (including software) and other services included on or otherwise made available to 
you through the IMDB services are provided by IMDB on an "as is" and "as available" basis. IMDB 
makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, as to the operation of the IMDB 
services or the information, content, materials, products (including software) or other services included 
on or otherwise available to you through the IMDB services. You expressly agree that your use of the 
!MOB services is at your sole risk. !MOB reserves the right to withdraw any !MOB services or delete 
any information from the !MOB services at any time in its discretion. 
Without corroborating evidence, such as industry or media reports or other credible, independent sources to support this 
infonnation, we cannot make a dete1mination regarding the productions' relative successes. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
10Id. 
11 Id. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the two categories of evidence discussed above. Although 
the Petitioner also argues eligibility for two additional criteria, pertaining to judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), we need not reach these additional 
grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 12 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) ( finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated 
reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is othe1wise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8868195 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an athlete competing in weightlifting , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement of either a one-time achievement 
or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . In addition, 
the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that be will continue to work in his area of 
expertise under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(5) . The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to 
reopen and reconsider , and submitted new evidence including an offer of prospective employment. 
While the Director acknowledged that this evidence established the Petitioner's intent to continue 
competing as a weightlifter , he also found that other additional evidence was sufficient to establish 
that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements . The Petitioner now appeals that decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a weightlifter who has been participating in national and international tournaments 
for several years. While he initially stated his intent to both coach and compete, he indicated that he 
did not intend to pursue coaching in his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), and 
provided the prospective job offer letter mentioned above on motion. 
A. One Time Achievement 
Although the Petitioner did not claim to have earned a major, internationally-recognized award on 
motion, he now reasserts the claim he made in response to the Director's RFE. He asserts that the 
bronze medal he received in the 2013....._ ______ ......,,.--......,,.--------'/ World 
Championships in thel I division is comparable to an Olympic medal, since this tournament 
involved the same world-class level of competition as the Olympic Games. However, as noted in the 
Director's decision, while neither the pertinent statute nor the regulations identify a particular prize or 
award which qualifies as a one time achievement, the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel 
Prize as an example of a one-time achievement. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted 
in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. Like other examples including the Pulitzer 
Prize, the Academy Awards and Olympic medals, the selection of Nobel Laureates is reported in the 
top media on an international basis and reflects a familiar name to the public at large. While we do 
not question the caliber of competition at the annual0World Championships, the record does not 
include evidence demonstrating that it receives the same level of recognition beyond the sport of 
weightlifting to the public ~e. The Petitioner submitted evidence of articles regarding his and his 
teammates victories at thel__JW orld Championships in newspapers inl I but he did not 
submit evidence showing the same level of broad international press coverage given to the Olympic 
Games. We therefore find that he has not established that he as earned a major, internationally­
recognized award. 
2 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to his receipt of 
lesser natrnally~d internationally recognized awards. Based ur,on his receipt of medals at the 2013 
and 2014 orld Championships, as well as in the 2014 I I we agree with the 
Director's finding regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he also meets the following additional evidentiary criteria: 
• Documentation of the his membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
• Published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
relating to his work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence shall include 
the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
• Evidence of original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of 
major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
• Evidence that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the 
requisite three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion in his initial filing, but did not address this 
claim in his combined motion to reopen and reconsider. He now reiterates this claim on appeal. The 
record indicates that the Petitioner competed as a member of thel I national weightlifting 
team for several years. Although he does not refer to evidence to establish that the team requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
weightlifting experts, in his appeal brief: his initial filing included evidence submitted in support of 
his claim to meet these requirements. Specifically, he referred to several different reference letters 
two of which were submitted by officers of the Weightlifting Federrat=io=n=,(., _______ ____r 
Although the letter froml lvice President of~------,, speaks mainly of the 
Petitioner's participation from 2013, the letter from.__ _____ __, indicates that he has been a 
member of the national team since 2008. These letters are consistent with the evidence of the 
Petitioner's participation in international tournaments during this period. 
As to whether membership on the national weightlifting team of I I requires outstanding 
achievements, the Petitioner submitted a document titled "Resolution About Approval of the General 
Principles and Criteria of Forming of Lists of Candidates for Sports Teams '--------~ 
3 
.__ ___ ..... I.. the Procedure for Approval of the List." We note that the effective date of this resolution 
is October 26, 2017, which means that the Petitioner would have been subject to these rules for national 
team selection while competing in the 201 ~World Championships. Chapter 2 of the resolution 
indicates that the candidate lists for members of the national sports teams "are formed based on the 
results of participation of athletes in the official republican or international sports competitions during 
the previous season," and that they include "athletes who have reached the highest level" in those 
events. Chapter 3 further describes the approval of the list of team members for each team. Based 
upon this evidence, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his initial decision, the Director determined that the articles initially submitted were not about the 
Petitioner, but merely mentioned him and reported the results of competitions. He also found that 
most of this evidence did not include the required date and author information, and was not published 
in a qualifying type of media under this criterion. With respect to the evidence submitted on motion, 
the Director found the transcripts of a televised interview of the Petitioner to not have been published 
in a qualifying medium, and to be from an unverifiable source. 
Upon review of the evidence submitted with the initial petition, in response to the Director's RFE, and 
with motion to reopen and reconsider, we find that some of the published articles are about the 
Petitioner. Specifically, an article published in the newspaper Sport on I 12014 reports his 
receipt of a bronze medal in the 2014,.__ ___ ~~ and includes an interview of him about the 
tournament and future prospects for the national weightlifting team. Another article in the 
same publication, issued on~----~2013, is about the Petitioner and another weightlifter 
receiving honorary titles as a result of their victories in the 2013c=]w orld Championships. Both 
articles include the required date and author information. 
However, the evidence does not establish that Sport is a professional publication, intended for those 
engaged in a profession as opposed to the public at large, or that it is a major trade publication. 
Regarding its status as a major medium, the evidence indicates that it is distributed "along the all 
branch [sic] of national airline! [" and that the weekly editions noted above had circulation 
of 5000 and 7000 copies, respectively. However, the record does not include circulation data for other 
print media inl lby which it could be determined whether Sport is a major medium. We 
note that an article posted on the website of the Ministry of Physical Education and Sports of the I llists Sport among five other publications focusing on sports reporting. But 
the article does not provide circulation statistics for any of these publications, and while it notes that 
the list is a "rating" of newspapers, there is no evident score or other value assigned to the publications 
in the list, or any other information relevant to the determination of whether the publications qualify 
as major media. 
Regarding the other articles in the record published in print or online media, we agree with the Director 
that none are about the Petitioner. For example, an article published in the newspaper People's Voice 
onl 12014 is titled 'I r2014: Success of our Athletes," and includes a single 
4 
sentence reoorting the Petitioner's results. Another article in the same newspaper published on I f 2013 includes a decree from the President ofl I awarding an honorary title to the 
Petitioner for hisc=] World Championship results, but unlike the article in Sport noted above does 
not provide farther information about the Petitioner or his career as a weightlifter. As noted by the 
Director, articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles about a show are not about the actor). Similar articles in other newspapers in the record 
are also not about the Petitioner. 
Turning to the transcripts of what the Petitioner describes as a broadcast documentary about him, titled I I' they show the Petitioner being interviewed and filmed as he trains. 
It is therefore about the Petitioner and his work as a weightlifter. As to whether this material was 
published in a major medium, the Director noted in his decision that the date and author information 
was not included, and that the source of the transcri twas indeterminate. On review, we note that the 
Petitioner referred to a letter from who states that he previously worked for the 
"Sport" channel of the~---~ National TV and Radio Company, and is now employed by the 
Ministry of Physical Education and Sports. He provides a list of programs which were aired which 
included the Petitioner, which includes several airings of weightlifting competitions in which the 
Petitioner participated which are not primarily about the Petitioner. The list also includes a description 
of what appears to be the program evidenced by the transcripts, although he refers to it by a different 
title, and states that it was aired inl 12014. However, unlike the other programs listed,□ I I does not indicate that it was aired on the "Sport" channel, or identify on which medium it 
was presented. Also unlike the other programs listed, he does not provide an estimate of the number 
of viewers of this program. Further, a link to a Y ouTube video of the program provided by the 
Petitioner could not be accessed. Accordingly, the evidence does not establish that the transcripts 
relate to material which was published. 
For all of the reasons noted above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not indicate why he believes that the Director's original decision 
regarding this criterion was in error, or refer to specific evidence in the record that supports his claim, 
but simply states that evidence of his "original athletic contribution in the field has been provided." 
We note that in his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner first highlights 
two awards he was granted: "The Best Sportsman of 2013" from the I lvouth organization 
at the I ITnstitute of Physical Training, and "The most perspective sportsman of the year" 
from theLJ. However, no evidence or explanation was (or is) provided to show that these awards 
5 
represent original contributions to the sport of weightlifting, or that they were given to the Petitioner 
to recognize contributions that have made a significant impact in the sport. Rather, they are 
acknowledgments of the Petitioner's athletic accomplishments and potential. 
The Petitioner also referred in his RFE response to a letter from the director of the I I specialized 
boarding school of Olympic reserves. After listing some of the Petitioner's athletic accomplishment, 
the director states that "Due to his achievements in sports, the number of children and adolescents who 
have wished to become a notable athletic sportsman in I l and not only in I I has made a significant contribution to the development of sport in this country." He 
goes on to list several weightlifters who have competed in international competitions and "who were 
admiring [the Petitioner] and chosen the sports -weightlifting." While the director thus indicates that 
the Petitioner served as an inspiration for these and other athletes, these assertions are not supported 
by evidence directly and exclusively linking the Petitioner's athletic accomplishments to an increase 
in the quantity and quality of weightlifters in I I Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of his claim to qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence of regular 
salary payments he received, as well as bonuses he was awarded for certain achievements. The only 
evidence regarding regular wages received was a statement from the sports club of the Ministry of 
Defense, which lists his salary for the months of February 2017 to January 2018. During those 12 
twelve months he received a total of 13,336,735 I l or an average of 1, 111,3950 per 
month. 
Other evidence includes a similar statement from thee=] which indicates that the Petitioner received 
a single payment of 40,304,000c=]in October 2017 for "salary and other earnings," although there 
is no explanation why this money was received during this month and no others. In addition, the 
record includes evidence that the Petitioner received several one-time bonuses: 
• 5,000,000 D from thel I National Olympic Committee for winning a silver medal 
at the 2013BWorld Cham ionships (undated certificate) 
• 50,000,000 from the National Olympic Committee for "earning a license to 
participate" in the 2016,__ __ ~_~(undated certificate) 
• 5,000,000 from th National Olympic Committee for winning a silver medal 
at the 4 ~-------~ in 2017 (undated certificate) 
• Letter and title confirming that he was awarded a "Youth House" onl 12016 under a 
government order providing housing for "young families actively participating in the 
country's social life" 
• Letter and purchase agreement confirming that he received a car (2013 ~ on I I 2013 for his bronze and silver medals earned at the 2013c::]World 
Championships 
In addition, in a reference letter dated May 3, 2019, the vice president ofc::=Jstates that the Petitioner 
is "number two among the highest paid weightlifters I I' and "among the top paid athletes 
6 
in other types of sports inl ~' However, this official does not provide salary figures for the 
Petitioner or other athletes to support his statement, nor does he provide additional information 
regarding the bonuses received by the Petitioner and other athletes. 
The Petitioner also provided a report which indicates that it was prepared by the State Committee of 
I I on Statistics I I, titled "Average monthly nominal accrued wages 
in I I" It indicates for the 2017 calendar year, the average monthly wage for 
all employment categories was 1,453,200 D and in the category of "Art, Entertainment and 
Recreation," 1,367,000c=J. However, we note that the report does not provide wage statistics for 
athletes in general, or for weightlifters specifically. Since the category of "Art, Entertainment and 
Recreation" could include wages for a wide variety ofjobs and industries, this figure does not provide 
an appropriate basis for comparison to the Petitioner's wage and other earnings. 
In addition, the report provides only average salaries, and does not include data for top earners in their 
respective fields. While we acknowledge that the evidence shows that the Petitioner's remuneration, 
including salary and bonuses, exceeded 58 million~ in 2017, the data in the I lreport is 
not sufficient to establish that this sum is significantly high in comparison to that of other weightlifters 
i~ I We therefore find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10296240 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 07, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior product manager in the field of cloud computing, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 
U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
established that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria, it did not demonstrate his sustained 
national or international acclaim or that he is one of the very few at the top of his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and evidence and asserts his eligibility for the classification 
sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to original contributions, leading or critical role, and 
high salary. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established eligibility for the criteria 
related to membership and to judging. On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges the Director's 
conclusion that he meets the criteria related to original contributions, leading or critical role, and high 
salary, but also contends that he has established eligibility for the membership criterion.1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets the criteria related to high 
salary and leading or critical role. However, contrary to the Director's finding, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the criteria related to original contributions. Further, we 
agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet the membership criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion as he is a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE). The record contains an e-mail notification and a letter from IEEE 
establishing that the Petitioner is a senior member of that organization. It also includes the IEEE 2016 
Annual Repmi and 2018 IEEE Constitution and Bylaws demonstrating that this organization is in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
1 The Petitioner does not contestthe Director's conclusion that he has not satisfied the judging crite1ion. Accordingly we 
deem the issue waived and will not address it in our analysis. 
2 
However, the Petitioner must also show that in order to obtain senior membership, he was judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field 
of cloud computing. 2 To establish this, the Petitioner provides the IEEE senior member requirements 
and a document titled "IEEE Admission and Advancement Review Panel (AARP) Meeting Schedule" 
describing the selection process. The IEEE senior membership requirements state that a candidate for 
senior membership should be "an engineer, scientist, educator, technical executive originator" in the 
fields of engineering, computer sciences and in formation tech no logy ,physical sciences, biological and 
medical sciences, mathematics, and/or technical communications, education, management, law and 
policy. In addition, candidates must "have been in professional practice for at least ten years" and 
"have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years." The IEEE 
requirements document advises that "[ m Jany prospective applicants make the mistake of assuming 
that "significant performance" requires special awards, patents, or other extremely sophisticated 
technical accomplishments, but this is not the case" as '"[ s ]ubstantial job responsibilities such as team 
leader, task supervisor ... all are indications of significant performance." The IEEE senior membership 
requirements do not indicate that the IEEE requires outstanding achievements of its senior members 
as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
Similarly, the AARP meeting schedule document does not state criteria by which the AARP selects 
IEEE senior members. Instead, the document identifies the locations for AARP meetings, states that 
the meeting should be presided over by the AARP Chair and/or Vice Chair, and provides that 
applicants should submit their application, resume, and required reference forms atleastten days prior 
to the AARP meeting. The record lacks other evidence demonstrating that IEEE requires outstanding 
achievements of its senior members as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in 
the field. Absent materials showing this, the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner 
satisfies this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director in this matter. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As mentioned, we conclude that the record does not establish the Petitioner made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled 
this criterion but did not identify the original contributions made by the Petitioner or the evidence on 
which he relied to make this finding. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 1he 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (indicating that the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.) 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that his development of the I I software an;..;;:d;....;:a=n:cJ...I ____ __., 
.__ _______ _. tool forD satisfies this criterion. With respe,....c_t_t_o_t_h_e~l----------1 
software, the Petitioner provides letters, a PowerPoint presentation titled I _ _ 
' and press releases and news articles about the software. 3 The 
..,.1-et-te_r_s----,-in-th:-e_r_e_c_o_rd-,--d:-e-m-on-st_ra_t~e the Petitioner's involvement in the deverpmer of the I I I !software. For example] l princ~stems architect at asserts that the 
Petitioner "founded the I l software" aL_J and explains how the Petitioner's wmk 
has impacted I Is ability to provide services to its customers. I IVice President of 
Products a~._ __________ __.l 4 states that the Petitioner "has proved essential to some of 
the most important technological innovations our company has made including thel 117 
[ I' and explains that the technology has reduced costs for~'s customers. Howev'erQ I I does not specifically articulate how cost saving forl ~s customers reflects the major 
significance of either the Petitioner's role in the development of the technology or the technology itself 
in the field of cloud computing. 
Thus, whild land I I explain how the Petitioner's development of the tool has been 
of major significance tol and to its customers, they do not specifically articulate how this 
development is of major significance to the field of cloud computing as a whole. Letters that 
specifically aiiiculate how the alien's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact 
on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to 
be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 Without detailed specific 
examples demonstrating how the Petitioner's contributions to the development of thd I 
are of major significance in the field, these letters are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
The PowerPoint presentation in the record, while authored by the Petitioner, describes his role in 
identifying potential clients for thel I tool and business opportunities forl I Here 
the Petitioner does not explain or submit evidence to establish how identifying clients is an original 
contribution in the field of cloud computing. Finally, we note that while press releases and media 
indicate the importance and implementation ofthel I tool in the Petitioner's field, they 
do not identify the Petitioner, attribute the software to him, or otherwise reflect the major significance 
of the Petitioner's role in its development. 
Regarding thd I tool, the Petitioner submits letters of recommendation, PowerPoint presentations, 
technical documentation, and news articles to show that the0 tool has been implemented by other 
companies. The PowerPoint presentations authored by the Petitioner detail the step-by-step 
development of thel I tool and identify him as one of three team members responsible for the 
management o1 the pf°duct. This documentation is sufficient to establish the Petitioner's role in 
developing the tool and the news articles and letters of recommendation about the tool 
demonstrate that it constitutes an original contribution. 
3 While we address only a sarouJe nftbe Jett, here, we ha vereviewedand considered each one in the record. 
4 The record reflects tha~~--------~ 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3dat 134-135 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
However, the record does not demonstrate the tool's major significance in the field of cloud 
computing. The letters of recommendation describe its importance of the0 too 1 to and impact on 
each author's employer. For example,! I notes that the Petitioner "is credited for initiating 
and delivering a number of key strategic initiatives such a'-L----r--------,,-- ______ __J 
I r and describes its importance tol I SiTilarlyr ~--------< . ctor of sales at I l describes his company's selection o tool, noting that ~~ solution really 
shines among other solutions in the industry" and that this tool is leading "to sigQificant sav~ngs" for I 
his organization. While this evidence demonstrates the importance of this tool tol bnd t I lit is insufficient to show the major significance of theD tool in the field. 
Regarding the news articles, they show that a law firm and a state university now utilize theOtool. 
However, the Petitioner does not explain or provide evidence showing how a law firm and university 
are representative of the field of cloud computing such that their use demonstrates its widespread use 
in that field. Without information showing how the D tool has widely impacted or been 
implemented in the field of cloud computing as a whole, these letters do not establish that the I I 
tool is an original contribution of major significance in the field of cloud computing. 6 
For the above stated reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion and we will withdraw the 
Director's finding in this matter. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asse1is that he meets this criterion through his development of theOtool discussed 
above. Here the record includes the PowerPoint presentations describing the duties he performed in 
so doing and the press releases and letters demonstra1ng thy its development has been critical for I I The Petitioner also submits documentation abou to establish its distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly we agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The record provides an employment certification from his employer establishing his base salary and 
comparable salary documentation for seniorproductmanagers from Glassdoor, Pay Scale, and the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. This evidence demonstrates thatthe Petitioner's base salary is high relative 
to that of other senior product managers. Accordingly we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
For the above stated reasons, and contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has 
not submitted documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Thus, while the 
Petitioner asse1is on appeal that the record demonstrates his sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor, we need not reach this 
6 Id. 
5 
issue. We will reserve it as the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).7 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in 
the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20453097 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 7, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who operates a weight loss center, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
When the Petitioner filed her appeal in October 2021, she asserted that she would submit a brief within 
30 days. To date, eight months later, the record does not contain any further brief, and the Petitioner 
has requested that we expedite the processing of the appeal. Therefore, we consider the record to be 
complete as it now stands. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence , then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a medical degree and, as she describes it, "has extended training in the area of 
psychology, business coaching, and cosmetology." The record contains little information about the 
Petitioner's employment in her native Ukraine, but the record indicates that she owned a business there 
called! I The Petitioner entered the United States in 2015 as a B-1 
nonimmigrant visitor for business. Since that time, she has been in the United States as either a B-1 
visitor or an E-2 nonimmigrant treaty investor, running her 
own business, I which 
operates I in Georgia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, relating to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards; membership in associations that require outstanding 
achievements; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all four claimed criteria. Upon review of1he 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only one criterion. We will discuss 
the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed five qualifyingprizes or awards. Following a request for evidence (RFE), 
the Petitioner stated that "[t]he most significant awards" she received are the three described below.1 
1 The Petitioner's other two claimed awards are a di loma reco izinher "successful im lementation ofl 
'fr and the 
Ukrainian andadi lomafromtheDe artmentof 
Medical Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy and Balneology at the I !recognizing her work training "highly qualified personnel" for "health and beauty centers." Because the 
2 
The Civil Service Component of Accountability and Effectiveness of Ukrainian 
gave the Petitioner an undated citation for providing "professional and specialized training in Conflict 
Management" to "judges and court personnel." In 2006, the Citywide Information Forum of the State 
Service of Employment in Ukraine, gave the Petitioner a clock and a diploma "for her fruitful 
cooperation withl Employment Centre on the issues of implementation of the overnmental 
o lie for ub lie em lo ment." Fin all , the Petitionerreceived a certificate in 2 007 from the 
the 
and th ___________ -·----------------' 
In the RFE, the Director asked for evidence that the claimed prizes meet the requirements set forth in the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In response, the Petitioner provided her own declaration with 
additional claimed details about the awards, but she did not submit any further corroborating evidence. 
A petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance of the 
evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Furthermore, section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act requires "extensive documentation" of recognition. Because the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence to support her assertions, she has not met this burden. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established "that the primary purpose of the prizes or 
awards was to recognize excellence in the beneficiary's field." The Director also noted that some of the 
awards appear to be "local or regional in nature." 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that she has received qualifying awards, but she does not cite any 
evidence to support her assertions. The 2006 Citywide Information Forum award was granted by a 
municipal authority, with no evidence of wider recognition. The undated citation relating to conflict 
management training is from an organization that received funding from the European Union, but it does 
not follow that the citation is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award from the European 
Union itself. The Petitioner has not shown that her receipt of either of these documents attracted 
recognition at a national or international level. The certificates appear to recognize the Petitioner's 
completion of specific short-term projects for what appear to be clients, ratherthan excellence in her field. 
Regarding the 2007 certificate, the Petitioner asserts that she presented a project at a competition 
for which one of the judges was I the founder of I The 
Petitioner asserts: "There could be no higher measure of excellence than winning a [competition] that 
is judged by the founder of the method that was a subject of the competition." I I signed 
the certificate, in his capacity as president of the I I I I But the record does not reliably corroborate the Petitioner's narrative of the events 
surrounding her receipt of the certificate. The English translation of the key portion of the certificate 
reads: 
Petitioner has not addressed the Director's conclusions regarding these two claimed a wards, we conclude that she has 
abandonedherclaimsregardingthem. See MatterofR-A-M-, 25 T&NDec. 657,658 n.2(BTA2012)(statingthatwhen a 
filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 
1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09---CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims 
were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Certificate 
of 
Ocompetition Winner 
This is issued to 
[ the Petitioner] 
to confinn her participation in Research-to-Practice Workshop I in Action 
(theory and practice 5 hours in total) 
Apart from the Petitioner's name and the two signatures, the text of the o original certificate is printed 
except for the phrase "nobedumerb kohkypc ' translated as Competition Winner," which 
has been handwritten under the word "Cepmuqukam" ("Ce1iificate"). Apart from this handwritten 
addition, the ce1iificate includes no other reference to any competition, and the Petitioner has submitted 
no other evidence about the claimed competition. 
Whatever the circumstances of this handwritten addition, the printed text shows that the certificate was 
printed for the purpose of documenting participation in a five-hour training workshop, rather than the 
receipt of any award arising from that participation. The Petitioner has not established thatthe completion 
of occupational training amounts to a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in her field. 
With respect to the requirement that the awards recognize excellence in the Petitioner's field, the 
Petitioner does not explain how any of these claimed awards directly relate to her current field of 
endeavor, which involves management of a weight loss clinic. 
The Petitioner has not documented her receipt of qualifying prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion through her membership in the All-Ukrainian Association 
of Physiotherapists and Balneotherapists (AAPB) and the All-Ukrainian Association of Applied 
Aesthetics Experts (AAAAE). The Petitioner has not shown that either organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The letter attesting to her membership in the AAPB states that the Petitioner became a member in 2000, 
"for active participation in scientific and practical work, the development of innovative drives in 
physiotherapy and balneology sectors, based on the high results shown, on the recommendation of [an] 
'AAPB' honorary member." 
The letter confirming the Petitioner's AAAAE membership describes projects in which the Petitioner 
participated, but does not indicate that the organization requires outstanding achievements as a condition 
of membership. Rather, the letter indicates that the Petitioner was involved in the organization since its 
incorporation in 2001, and "took an active part in its development." 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion that "[t]he listed associations do not require 
outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership." The Petitioner 
contends that this conclusion "is not founded on any evidence provided to the USCIS." The burden of 
proof is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility; there is no presumption that the Petitioner's memberships 
meet the requirements, which the Director must then rebut. The minimal information that the Petitioner 
has provided about the associations and their membership requirements does not suffice to meet the 
Petitioner's burden of proof. 
The Petitioner has not established that her memberships meet the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner initially stated that she meets the requirements of this criterion through the following 
contributions: 
• Development of the I training course; 
• Development of the 
• Provision of "services on gathering and analysis of . information for developing of 
multifunctional cosmetology equipment" on behalf ofl I and 
• A cooperation agreement betweenD and I I for "developing and 
implementing innovative protocols and standards in dermatocosmetology for the purpose of 
studying, teaching, advance[d] training and the exchange of scientific-research expertise." 
The Petitioner noted that she has registered copyrights for her weight loss programs. The registration of 
a copyright indicates originality, but does not establish major significance. A copyright protects 
intellectual property; it does not, however, demonstrate a work's major significance. Promotional 
materials for the Petitioner's business ventures do not establish the significance of those ventures. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of two cooperation agreements into which entered. In 1999 the 
company agreed to assist with the testing cosmetology equipment developed byl . In 
2000, andl I agreed to discuss "[j]oint research in the fields of mutual 
interest" and "to promote and contribute [to] direct cooperation." The Petitioner did not document the 
results of either of these agreements or establish their major significance in the field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that her "work is of major significance because 
obesity is ... a serious medical condition." At issue here is not whether obesity is a significant health 
risk, but rather whether the Petitioner's original contributions are, themselves, of major significance in 
treating obesity. The Petitioner has shown that she operates a weight loss center, but she has not 
established the major significance of her contributions. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded thatthePetitioner' s "evidence lacks specificity regarding how 
her achievements have affected the field or how the asserted achievements are being reproduced within 
the field," or "how others emulate her techniques or have widely applied herresults." 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her "health centers in Ukraine participated in the trials of the new 
equipment [ from I that is now commonly used byprofessionals." The Petitioner does not show 
that she participated in the design or development of the equipment. Her company was one of several 
companies that tested the equipment. She has not demonstrated that her company's testing of 
I Is equipment, in particular, was an original contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asse1is that she "published 48 articles in reputable professional publications." These 
articles are covered by a separate criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xvi), which the Director granted. 
However, to establish that those articles are also contributions of major significance, the Petitioner must 
submit evidence to that effect, which requires more than simply documenting their existence. She must 
show that the articles have had an impact throughout the field, which she has not done. 
The Petitioner has not established the major significance of her original contributions. For instance, she 
has not submitted studies showing that her methods represent a significant improvement over existing 
weight loss techniques, or documentation showing widespread adoption of her methods. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the sustained national or international acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work on a scale that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16666105 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 08, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition but later revoked the 
approval after issuing a notice of intent to revoke. The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The matter is now 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;Mattera/Cheung, 12 I&NDec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. 450,452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the combined motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
A. The Classification Sought 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinaiy 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term '·extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2010). 
B. Revocation of an Approved Petition 
Section 205 of the Act states: "The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he 
deems to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under 
section 204. Such revocation shall be effective as of the date of approval of any such petition." 
Regarding the revocation of an immigrant petition under section 205 of the Act, the Board of 
Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter ofEstime ... , this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582,590 (BIA 1988) (quotingMatter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision" which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by 
2 
documentary evidence sufficient to warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision 
to dismiss the appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and affinned the revocation decision, concluding that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he could satisfy at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only one criterion, at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires documentation of memberships in associations that require 
outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in the field. We disagreed with the Director and withdrew his determination that the Petitioner had 
satisfied this criterion. We also determined, upon de nova review of the record, that the Petitioner 
had submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), which relates to judging the work of others in his field, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
which relates to authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Finally, we agreed with the Director's determination that the record did not support the Petitioner's 
claims that he had made original contributions of major significance in his field or that he has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix). As we determined that the Petitioner did not meet the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
did not proceed to a final merits determination. 
In addition to addressing the merits of the Petitioner's extraordinary ability claim, we considered the 
Petitioner's argument that the Director's notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) provided inadequate notice 
of the proposed grounds forrevocation. Specifically, the Petitioner claimed on appeal that "the Service 
based the majority of its analysis and reasons ofrevocation on their fraud or willful misrepresentation 
claim." He emphasized since the notice of revocation did not make any reference to fraud or material 
misrepresentation of a material fact, "there was not sufficient evidence of record at the time of the 
notice that would deem the intention to revoke 'good and sufficient cause."' 
We acknowledged that the Director raised concerns regarding the authenticity of the recommendation 
letters in the record in the NOIR. However, we observed that Director also explained in detail why 
the documentation in the record at the time the NOIR was issued did not satisfy at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and addressed each of the claimed criteria 
independently. In addition, we determined that the notice of revocation explained the reasons for 
revocation, that it provided support for the conclusions reached regarding the Petitioner's eligibility 
based on the evidence of record, and that the Petitioner had adequate notice and an opportunity to 
respond prior to the written notice ofrevocation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and (c). 
B. The Petitioner's Combined Motion 
On motion the Petitioner, asserts that, based on the record before us at the time of the appeal, we 
incorrectly determined that he did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
He also submits additional evidence relating to this criterion. In addition, he submits new evidence in 
support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(ix), and asserts that, with this new evidence, he has 
3 
now demonstrated that he commands a high salary in relation to others in his field. We will address 
these two evidentiary criteria below.1 
Before turning to the evidentiary criteria, we note that the Petitioner also repeats his previous claim 
that the Director did not have good and sufficient cause to revoke the approval of the petition. He 
asserts that the suspected fraudorwillfulmisrepresentation mentioned in the Director's NOIR "f 01med 
the entire basis for the NOIR" and maintains that the Director should not have revoked the approval if 
there was ultimately no finding of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
As discussed above, the Petitioner made this argument on appeal and we addressed the merits of his 
claim in our prior decision. Specifically, we determined that the NOIR provided the Petitioner with 
adequate notice of the deficiencies that formed the grounds for revocation and afforded him the 
opportunity to respond to those deficiencies as required by 8 C.F.R. § 205 .2(b) and ( c ). The record 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that any suspected fraud or willful misrepresentation "formed 
the entire basis for the NOIR." 
To meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must establish that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in our decision dismissing the appeal. Here, the Petitioner simply 
repeats his claims that the Director did not have good and sufficient cause to revoke the approval of 
his petition, rather than addressing the specific conclusions we reached in our appellate decision with 
respect to this issue. In fact, the Petitioner does not acknowledge that we addressed this issue in our 
decision. Accordingly, he has not established with the current motion that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in concluding that the Director complied with the regulations governing 
revocation of an approved immigrant petition. 
C. Evidentiary Criteria 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that he met only two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x) and therefore did not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification. On motion, he asserts that he can meet the two criteria discussed 
below. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the jieldjor which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines orfields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The Petitionerdoesnotpursuehis previous claim that he can satisfy the criterion related to originalcontributions of major 
significanceat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and we consider this claim to be waived. See, e.g.,MatterojM-A-S-,24I&NDec. 
762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL471 1885 at* I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011 )(the court determinedtheplaintiff's 
claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
4 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must submit documentation of their membership in associations 
in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their 
members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines. 
The Petitioner claims that he can satisfy this criterion based on his admission as a "Senior Member" 
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He submitted proof of his membership 
as well as excerpts from the IEEE bylaws which address the requirements for Senior Members. 
According to the bylaws, "a candidate shall be an engineer, scientist, educator, technical executive or 
originator in IEEE-designated fields ... The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at 
least ten years and shall have shown significant performance of a period of at least five of those years." 
The bylaws further specify that "significant performance" can take the form of "[p ]ublication of 
papers, books, or inventions." 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the IEEE's stated requirements for admission as a Senior 
Member (ten years of relevant experience and "significant performance" consisting of publication of 
papers, books or inventions) do not rise to the level of"outstandingachievements" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. We also observed that the evidence indicated that the IEEE has a "Fellow'' 
membership grade that appears to align more closely with the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Specifically, we noted that, according to the submitted IEEE bylaws, Fellow 
membership requires "an outstanding record of accomplishments" that have "contributed importantly 
to the advancement or application of engineering, science and technology." In addition, we noted that 
one can apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and 
election at the highest levels of the association. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that we misconstrued the IEEE Senior Member requirements, 
asserting that it "does not just require '10 years of relevant experience in a particular field' and 
'publication of papers, books and inventions.'" He emphasizes that "much more is required," and that 
he also had to demonstrate "professional maturity," "significant performance of at least 5 years," and 
provide three references from "other IEEE elite members." The Petitioner emphasizes some of his 
own professional achievements and asserts that the IEEE judging panel would have considered his 
professional positions, his publication in journals with international reputation, and his peer review 
service in determining his qualifications for senior membership. He maintains that only 9% ofIEEE's 
428,000 members reach the Senior Member level and that it is "an extremely elite group." 
The Petitioner further argues that we placed undue weight on the phrase "significant performance," in 
the IEEE bylaws, "insinuating that 'significant' cannot mean the same type of achievement as that 
which USCIS calls 'outstanding."' He emphasizes that "the actual Senior Member requirements, 
when looked at together, demonstrate that a member must have 'outstanding achievements' as used 
by USCIS." Further, the Petitioner notes that the examples of "significant performance" in the IEEE 
bylaws are not exhaustive and that judging panels "perform a rigorous review of a professional' s entire 
record, looking at everything together, to determine if the individual has met the requirements to be 
allowed into the elite membership group." 
The Petitioner also objects to our reference to the IEEE's stated requirements for Fellow membership, 
arguing that "[t]o suggest that Senior Member grade does not meet the requirements of this criteria 
because there is another membership class would take away from an objective analysis of the 
5 
requirements for the particular membership which the individual holds." He notes that, despite our 
observation that Fellow membership in the IEEE requires a nomination rather than an application, the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) contains no nomination requirement. The Petitioner maintains 
that "Senior Membership clearly does require outstanding achievements and it is not for AAO to guess 
as to why the IEEE has created additional membership grades." 
In addition, the Petitioner submits additional evidence in suppmi of his claim that his Senior 
membership in IEEE satisfies this criterion, including e-mail correspondence froml~------~ 
the IEEE's~-------------~ and a screenshot of the "Requirements for IEEE 
Senior Member Grade" from the association's website. 
~---~ts e-mail describes the application process for the Senior Member grade, noting that 
applicants must have three references from current IEEE members who have a grade of Senior 
Member or higher. He explains that applications are evaluated by a Senior Member Panel (usually 
local IEEE section members who have a Senior Member grade or higher) of at least two panelists, 
who evaluate applications to determine if an applicant meets the 10 years of Professional Experience 
and 5 years of Significant Performance requirements. He refers to the IEEE website for additional 
information regarding what constitutes "significant perfonnance." 
The IEEE' s website states that "[ m ]any prospective applicants make the mistake of assuming that 
'significant performance' requires special awards, patents, or other extremely sophisticated technical 
accomplishments, but that is not the case." The IEEE's description of significant performance 
indicates that"[ s ]ubstantialjob responsibilities such as team leader, task supervisor, engineer in charge 
of a program or project, engineer or scientist performing research with some measure of success 
(papers) or faculty developing and teaching courses ... are all indications of significantperfmmance." 
The new evidence submitted on motion does not support the Petitioner's claim that admission as a 
Senior Member in IEEE requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. The additional evidence sheds additional light on what the IEEE 
regards as "significant performance" but does not demonstrate that the IEEE's standards for meeting 
that threshold rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" as contemplated by the plain language 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While this membership level does not appear to be available to all 
professionals with 10 years of experience in the field, we cannot conclude that holding a team leader 
position, a project manager position, a faculty position, or a research position that results in 
publications amounts to exhibiting "outstanding achievements" in one of the IEEE-designated fields. 
These are certainly noteworthy professional accomplishments and some persons who are elevated to 
Senior Member likely exceed the minimum requirements. However, to demonstrate that his 
membership satisfies the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that IEEE requires 
Senior Members to have "outstanding achievements" as an essential condition of membership. 
As noted by the Petitioner, we observed in our prior decision that the IEEE has another membership 
level, Fellow Member, which requires "unusual distinction" and an "outstanding record of 
accomplishments." We agree with the Petitioner that the existence of this higher-level membership 
grade does not automatically lead to a conclusion that the Senior Member grade does not satisfy this 
criterion. However, the evidence contained in the IEEE bylaws provides useful contextregardinghow 
the association views a prospective member's qualifications. The existence of two different elevated 
6 
levels of membership with different stated requirements indicates that the IEEE does not consider the 
"significant performance" required for Senior membership to be equivalent to the "outstanding 
accomplishments" required for Fellow membership. As discussed above, the additional information 
from the IEEE website regarding what it deems to be "significant performance," does not support a 
conclusion that "significant performance" in an IEEE-designated field equates to "outstanding 
achievements" in the field as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Further, based otj ts description of the application review process for Senior membership, 
the record does not establish that prospective Senior Members are admitted only after having their 
achievements judged by "recognized national or international experts in the field" as required by 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The only stated requirement for participation in a Senior Member Panel is to 
be a Senior Member of the IEEE. While the Petitioner refers to Senior Members as an "elite group," 
the record does not establish that admission to a Senior Member grade is reserved solely for expe1ts 
who are recognized at the national or international level. 
For all the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in determining that he does not meet the membership criterion, nor does the new 
evidence submitted on motion establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations.2 
The Petitioner documented his earnings for the years 2013 and 2016. Specifically, he provided 
evidence that he received an annual salary of $101,923 for al !Minnesota-based position 
as a "Systems Accounting Manager," in 2013. In addition, he provided evidence that he received an 
annual salary of $115,000 while working as an "ERP functional business manager" inl I 
Florida in 2016. In dismissing the appeal, we observed that the Petitioner did not provide position­
appropriate comparative wage evidence to establish that his salary in one or both years was high in 
relation to others in the same geographic area and occupation. Specifically, we noted that he provided 
screenshots from the O*Net online database and Foreign Labor Certification Data Center (FLCDC) 
for "Computer Occupations, All Other," but did not provide comparative wage data applicable to his 
occupational title as a manager in the IT field. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits an O*Net Online Summary Report for the occupation of 
"Information Technology Project Manager," as well as O*Net Online local wage reports for this 
occupation for thd I Minnesota and I I Florida metropolitan areas. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that this new evidence demonstrates that the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) includes 
the "Inf mmation Technology Project Manager" occupation under "Computer Occupations, All 
2 Sec 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual(notingthatit is the petitioner's bunien 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
Other," and therefore the evidence he submitted previously did in fact provide an appropriate basis for 
companson. 
The evidence does not establish, however, that all managerial occupations in the information 
technology field are "project managers" that fall under the "Computer Occupations, All Other" 
category. In fact, the "IT project manager" is the only managerial title that falls under this category, 
which also includes web administrators, geographic infonnation systems (GIS) technicians, 
information security engineers, and document management specialists.3 For example, Computer and 
Information Systems Managers are classified separately, with separate wage data reported by BLS. 4 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he earned an annual salary of $101,923 in 2013 for the 
position of "Systems Accounting Manager" while working forl I in I I The new evidence submitted on motion shows that, according to BLS 2019 wage data, 
the median salary for an "IT Project Manager" inl I is $84,940, the 7 5th percentile wage is 
$113,130, and the 90th percentile wage for this occupation is $135,680. He also provides a document 
labeled "May 2013 OES Estimates" for "Computer Occupations, All Other," showing estimated 
statewide Minnesota wages for 2013. This document indicates a mean annual salary of $74,230, a 
75th percentile salary of $92,020, and a 90th percentile salary of $113,500.5 
The record does not contain a description of the duties the Petitioner performed as "Systems 
Accounting Manager," so we cannot determine to what extent his duties were consistent with those of 
an "IT Project Manager" as described in the O*Net summary report. Even assuming that this is the 
appropriate occupational classification, his 2013 earnings fell somewhere between 7 5th and 90th 
percentile when com ared to estimated statewide figures for Minnesota for 2013, which were likely 
lower tha wages. While his 2013 salary is also above the median when compared 
to.__ _______ __.figures for 2019, demonstrating that his salary is above the mean or median 
salary in the geographic area of employment is not sufficient to establish that he commanded a "high 
salary." 
In 2016, the Petitioner eam,d a base annual salry of $i115,000 as an "ERP functional business 
manager" while working for lin the Florida region. On motion, he submits 
evidence that, in 2019, the median salary for an ''Information Technology Project Manager" in this 
region was $65,680, the 75th percentile wage was $82,530, and the 90th percentile wage was $98,340. 
Because the Petitioner seeks to rely on his earnings from 2016, the relevant comparative data would 
be data from that year. With respectto that data he states, "[l]ooking at historical BLS data from 2016 
in Florida, we find thatfor"ComputerOccupations, All Other" the mean annual salary for the relevant 
region was actually higher at $74,91 O." He provides a link to the source of this information, but the 
source does not include any additional data from 2016. While it appears that his salary was higher 
than the 2016 average salary for an "Information Technology Project Manager," the regulation 
3 Sec Summary Report for 15 .1299.00 -Computer Occupations, All Other, https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/15-
1299 .00, lastaccessedon Jul. 7, 2021. 
4 See Summary Report for 11-3021.00-Computerand Information Systems Managers, https://www.onetonline.org/link/ 
summary/11-3021.00, last accessed on Jul. 7,2021. 
5 The record reflects that in 2019, the Minnesota statewide salaries reported on O*Net Online were lower than those 
reported forthq I region. 
8 
requires that the Petitioner demonstrate a "high salary" rather than an "above average" salary. There 
is insufficient evidence to support his claim that his salary was high in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10948019 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neurological surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 5 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her diploma of medicine in 2006 and lrer srcialized in neurosurgery. After 
serving as the chief resident at I !university in the Petitioner embarked on two 
fellowships; one atl I university in I l and the second where she currently works at the 
University o~ las a research fellow. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following 
seven categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to judging and 
authorship of scholarly articles, but that she had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met the evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas 
upon which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then. if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USC1S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011 ). 
2 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but not any of the remaining claimed classes of evidence. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided student awards, research grants, and travel awards under this criterion. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet these requirements and noted that student awards 
limited to a specific subset of individuals did not qualify because they excluded those already in the 
field. As it relates to the Petitioner's research grants and travel awards, the Director found that she 
did not establish these were awarded for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner responds to 
some of the elements the Director listed as shortcomings, but she still has not satisfied the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims the accolades she received as a student were thel !university of 
.__ _____ ___,t best young researcher, and the top researcher awards at the 10th and 11th research 
festival, respectively. The Director determined that these awards did not satisfy this criterion because 
they were limited to attendees at the issuing institution and because the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that accolades from such a limited pool were given for excellence "in the field" rather than to those in 
training to join the field. Although the Petitioner's appeal brief mentions these student awards in 
passing, she does not contest the Director's decision or explain how those accolades qualify. Issues 
addressed in this perfunctory manner are considered abandoned on appeal. 6 The Petitioner does not 
assert eligibility on appeal relying on any research grants and we also consider those claims to be 
abandoned. 7 
The only travel award the Petitioner identifies on appeal is the 2013 .__ _______ _. Young 
Researcher A ward. A review of the evidence does not bear out that this award was for excellence in 
the field. The record contains documentation from the issuing organization that the competition 
included the following requirements: the applicants were from a pool who resided in thd I 
who were under 40 years of age, and the candidates were at least published in a regional, non-indexed 
medical journal. Additionally, candidates for this award were "evaluated based on a predefined set of 
criteria including the relevance of the research question, its clinical impact, and novelty value, the 
study design, the results and their interpretation." The Petitioner has not explained how these 
cumulative factors would equate to recognition of "excellence in the field of endeavor." Furthermore, 
although some of the advisory letters from those in her field implied that this was a major award, they 
did not explain how this accolade was a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence 
in the field of endeavor, and most contained very similar language listing the benefits the award's 
beneficiaries received. 
6 Minghai Tian v. Holder, 745 F.3d 822, 827 (7th Cir. 2014) (stating that "an argument consisting of more than a 
generalized assertion of error" is required to hold that an issue has not been waived); Desravines v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 343 F. 
App'x 433, 435 (11th Cir. 2009) (a passing reference in the arguments section of a brief without substantive arguments is 
insufficient to raise that ground on appeal). See, e.g.. Leer v. Mwphy, 844 F.2d 628, 634 (9th Cir. 1988) ("Issues raised in 
a brief that are not supported by an argument are deemed abandoned."). 
7 Matter of Zhang, 27 l&N Dec. 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that an issue not appealed is deemed as abandoned). 
3 
After considering the Petitioner's claims and evidence, she has not met the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed her membership in three organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's 
material, the Director determined that she did not meet the requirements of this criterion because she 
did not establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership. Within the appeal, the Petitioner does not identify any error on the Director's part as it 
relates to this criterion. Instead, she maintains that the memberships she has attained qualify under 
this criterion. 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that any 
of the claimed organizations require outstanding achievements to qualify for membership. First, we 
consider the American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS). The Petitioner presented 
evidence that she held "resident/fellow" membership in this organization. She submitted the AANS 
membership requirements for the resident/fellow level, which consisted of "proof of enrollment in a 
verifiable non-North American neurosurgical training program," and "a recommendation for 
membership by your training program director." Absent from this material is a showing that AANS 
utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective 
members to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that 
AANS used this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership at the 
resident/fellow level. Each of these are mandatory requirements within the regulation. 
The next organization was the Congress of Neurological Surgeons (CNS) and the Petitioner was a 
member at the resident level. The Petitioner submitted CNS' bylaws reflecting resident membership 
will "be available to any resident in good standing in" certain accreditation organizations in the United 
States, Mexico, or Canada, "or any fellow in a fellowship immediately following completion of an 
accredited neurological surgery training program." These standards do not reflect that CNS requires 
outstanding achievements of its resident members, and as such this organization does not satisfy this 
criterion's requirements. 
Finally, the Petitioner discusses the European Association of Neurosurgical Societies (EANS). The 
Petitioner documented her membership in this organization. The material relating to EANS reflected 
that candidates who pass both parts of a board examination would be appointed as a Fellow of the 
European Board of Neurological Surgery (FEBNS). The Petitioner asserts that EANS membership as 
a fellow in FEBNS "is evidence of the excellence in neurosurgery that a major society in Europe 
appointed non-European citizens from thel las a" FEBNS fellow. The Petitioner did not 
explain how, and the record lacks documentary support for her conclusion that, as a condition of 
membership simply passing two board examinations amounts to outstanding achievements. It is 
insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient 
4 
evidence, which proves the allegation. 8 As a result, the Petitioner has not shown that EANS 
membership qualifies under this criterion. 
On appeal the Petitioner places significant focus on aspects outside of the minimum membership 
requirements of each entity ( e.g., statements made within multiple advisory letters), but she does not 
explain how any of the organizations require outstanding achievements as one of the minimum 
requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner provided information relating to published comments about three 
of her recent scholarly articles. The Director did not consider citations to her scholarly work to meet 
the plain language requirements of this criterion as that material was not "about the alien" and instead 
was focused on her scholarly work. On appeal, the Petitioner shifts her focus from the claims and 
evidence she offered the before Director to a public announcement relating to an award. 
As evidence of published material about her, the Petitioner identified a public announcement about 
her receipt of thel I award on the issuing entity's website. Here, the Petitioner did not provide 
the elements required by the regulation in the form of the material's date and author. This shortcoming 
alone means this evidence cannot meet this criterion's requirements. Additionally, the Petitioner did 
not offer any discussion of how the posting of competition results on this organization's website 
equates to one of the qualifying publication types ( a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media). Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner presented evidence that she has reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication in BMJ 
Case Reports. The Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and 
we agree with the Director's conclusion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided citations to her published work, to include scholarly articles and book 
chapters, as well as several advisory letters from those in her field that discussed her work. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. In particular, 
8 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
5 
the Director noted the Petitioner's citations to her published works, but concluded that she did not 
demonstrate her record established that she had a citation record that measured up to other 
neurosurgical researchers and in turn, she did not show that her work was of major significance in the 
field. The Director also briefly discussed the advisory opinion letters but did not find that they 
collectively showed that she meets this criterion. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she made contributions that were original 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted it, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not identify any particular error the Director may have committed under 
this requirement other than to disagree with his adverse conclusion. Although the Petitioner adds 
similar claims relating to her evidence, she does not offer any particular information for us to consider 
beyond what the Director evaluated. Some of the information and evidence the Petitioner offers within 
the appeal, to include citations to her work, postdates the Form I-140 filing date. A petitioner must 
establish eligibility at the time it files the nonimmigrant visa petition. 9 USCIS may not approve a visa 
petition if the Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but expects to become eligible at a 
subsequent time. 10 When she filed the petition, the Petitioner provided evidence about her citation 
record from Google Scholar reflecting her publication of 22 articles that had garnered citations. 
Other researchers' reliance on the Petitioner's work is a positive element and can be a method to 
corroborate the assertion that her noteworthy influence on other's work establishes that her 
contributions in the field are of major significance. However, The Petitioner has not sufficiently 
explained how a scholarly article receiving 24 citations, or 21 other articles sharing 87 citations, 
exhibits her impact within the field in a manner consistent with this criterion's requirements. For 
example, she did not provide the citation rates of other published research in her field that is widely 
recognized as a contribution of major significance for comparison purposes. Nor has the Petitioner 
shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed unusual reliance on her work. Specifically, 
the example citations in the record cite the Petitioner's study as one of dozens of other studies, and do 
not single out the Petitioner's work as significantly notable among other research in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that her citation record "is quite large since the community of 
Neurological surgeons is small .... " Even though the Petitioner provided advisory opinion letters 
whose authors claimed that the field related to neurological surgery is a small percentage of physicians 
worldwide, neither the authors nor the Petitioner offered probative material to enable us to evaluate 
that claim. We note that some of the published material citing to her work has garnered significantly 
more cites than an of her own articles. For instance her article titled, I I 
'---------------------------' had received five cites at the time she 
filed her petition. One of those articles that cited to her work titled, 
'----~----~~~---------------~-------- ........... received 
at least 3 5 5 citations by the time the Petitioner filed her Form I-140. This article citing to her own 
work was published approximately six months later, yet it garnered exponentially more attention than 
9 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
10 See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971 ). 
6 
even the Petitioner's most cited work. This tends to undermine the claims that her citation record is 
large because her specialized field contains fewer participants. 
Additionall the article titled 
.__ _ ___.' earned more than 100 cites by the Petitioner's priority date, yet her article that this work cites 
to was her most favorable piece with only 24 citations. Although her citations indicate some in the 
field have referenced her work, the Petitioner did not offer comparative material showing her citation 
numbers rose to the level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 11 
As it relates to the advisory opinion letters in the record, the do not describe si nificant contributions 
the Petitioner has already made in the field. For instance,L--,---.,.,--r------,1 a professor and the 
director of the I lsurgery program at the University of .__ __ ___. who supervises the 
Petitioner's fellowship, discussed how the citations to her work had increased from 57 at the start of 
her fellowship to 111 on the petition filing date. He surmised that this demonstrated that her "work 
has been among the most cited in the field in the past several years, and she has been consistently cited 
more than one would expect from an average researcher in the Neurological Surgery field." Absent 
additional evidence, an above average citation rate is insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner has 
made contributions of major significance in her field. Contributions of major significance connotes 
that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. 12 
~---____.I also discussed the prevalence and costs of neurological diseases and tied those important 
factors to some of the Petitioner's work. In particular he focused on a new surgical approach the 
Petitioner described in a published article. I I noted this procedure received editorial 
comments from leading surgeons and concluded that "[t]his provides just one example of the 
importance of her published work, providing evidence of how her prospective work can revolutionize 
... treatment options, by the careful development and researching of new techniques." He further 
stated that her "work will provide substantial benefits to the United States by improving treatments 
and lowering medical costs." While a prospective benefit to the United States is one of this 
classification's separate requirementsJ I did not describe how the Petitioner's work has 
already been so influential on her field. Although the procedure I I highlighted would 
appear to be an incremental improvement to the general pool of knowledge, the record does not support 
the position that this development was widely adopted in her field at the time she filed the petition. 
When reviewing the letter frortj l a professor atl I University and her supervisor 
at her fellowship at his university, we observe that he presented identical language found within D 
I Is letter relating to the Beneficiary and the importance of her work. Considering the remaining 
portion oti ts letter, he discussed the Petitioner's achievements and career, and he noted 
one of the Petitioner's published works that included a video received over 1,200 views on the Journal of 
Neurosurgery's YouTube channel. I I asserted that because this video accumulated the 
highest number of views in comparison with other articles in the same publication issue, that this proved 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua/F.2 app .. https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (Policy Manual) (providing an example that 
peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as 
authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
12 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. 
7 
the importance of her work. First, although the Petitioner provided material relating to this video 
refl,...,._........_......,.,_.,_,.. ......... .....,.,,O views, she did not offer material relating to the other videos in this same publication 
tha referenced, and thus the record does not support his assertions. Second, even if0 
~--~' s claims are true, his letter does not establish that the video made a significant impact within 
the Petitioner's field. 
The remaining letters the Petitioner submitted briefly discussed her skills and achievements, but they 
did not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact her 
research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 13 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.14 As a result, 
the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of serving as the author of several published scholarly articles in 
addition to multiple chapters in a scientific handbook related to her field. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with that determination. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she performed in a leading or critical role by presenting 
her work at professional conferences, and for three instances in which she served as a course instructor 
at the University ofi I The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. The Director noted that conference presentations did not satisfy the 
requirement that she perform the qualifying role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. Relating to her role as a course instructor, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not show her role was leading or critical for the university as a whole, rather than for 
one of its components or departments. 15 
Within the appeal the Petitioner presents the same claims she offered before the Director. Her appeal 
brief does not make any reference to the Director's analysis, nor does it explain how he might have 
erred in his adverse conclusion under this criterion. Simply disagreeing with the Director's 
determination ( 1) without explaining how she performed in a leading or critical role through presenting 
her work and training the next generation of neurosurgeons, and (2) without documenting that she 
performed those roles for entities with a distinguished reputation, is insufficient within these 
proceedings. After reviewing the entire record, to include the arguments and evidence submitted on 
13 Policy Manual, supra. 
14 Policy Manual, supra. 
15 Evidence under this criterion must provide specifics relating to how the Petitioner's role was critical to the organization 
as a whole instead of for a sub-element within the organization. Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 
2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
8 
appeal, we adopt and affirm the Director's analysis and ultimate conclusion under this criterion.16 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion on appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 17 Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress.18 Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 19 Even 
within her response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner indicated she intends to work as a fellow, 
which is generally accepted as training prior to embarking on a career in a specialty field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
16 See Matter of P. Singh, Attorney, 26 I&N Dec. 623 (BIA 2015) ( citing Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 
1994)); see also Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) (finding that if a reviewing body decides that the facts and 
evaluative judgments prescinding from them have been adequately confronted and correctly resolved by a previous entity, 
then the appellate body is free to adopt those findings provided the appellate decision reflects individualized attention to 
the case). 
17 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
18 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
19 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 8, 2024 In Re: 30776305 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a stage actor, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-
1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners in this 
category must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document 
recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director found that the Petitioner 
met the requested category's initial evidentiary requirements. But the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish his claimed place among the small percentage at the very top of his field 
or his intent to continue working in the United States in his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i),(ii) of 
the Act. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the Director applied too strict a standard of review and 
overlooked evidence. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the record lacks sufficient evidence of his claimed placement among the very 
top of his field. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary criteria above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 20 l0) (requiring a two-part analysis of 
extraordinary ability); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a Chinese national and citizen, has about 30 years' experience as a stage actor in his 
home country. He joined a Chinese stage play arts center in 1995 and now also serves as its director. 
The Petitioner has won Chinese acting awards and has written articles about acting. He stated that, in 
the United States, he would continue to work as a stage actor. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international 
award. He therefore had to meet at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i­
x). 
The Director found that he satisfied four of the requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that 
he meets at least three others. But, because he has met the requisite number of evidentiary criteria, we 
need not consider his qualifications for any others. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) 
(stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate 
decisions). We will next consider the Director's final merits determination, which found insufficient 
evidence of the Petitioner's claimed extraordinary ability. 
A. Extraordinary Ability 
During a final merits determination, users should consider a petition in its entirety. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(2). A petitioner must demonstrate that they have sustained national or international 
acclaim and that their achievements have been recognized in their field of expertise, indicating that 
they are one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field. Id. 
users considers any potentially relevant evidence, even if it does not fit one of the regulatory 
evidentiary criteria or was not submitted as comparable evidence. Id. A petition's approval or denial 
is based on the type and quality of evidence submitted. Id. 
The record supports the Director's conclusion that "[t]he record as a whole ... does not establish the 
beneficiary's eligibility for the benefit sought." The Petitioner demonstrated his receipt of Chinese 
theater awards. But, as the Director noted, the record does not indicate that the awards' number or 
prestige level identify him as one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of their field. 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided examples of articles he wrote about acting. But he did not 
demonstrate that his published work has influenced the Chinese or international acting field. Thus, 
the record does not establish that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
their field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets so many initial evidentiary criteria that "[t]his evidence 
not only passes the first [ evidentiary] step [of our analysis] but [also] the second final merits 
determination step." 
The Petitioner, however, is mistaken. The number of evidentiary requirements met has no direct 
bearing on the final merits determination. Under USCIS policy, "so long as the petitioner has 
submitted other evidence that meets the three qualifying criteria," an officer cannot deny a petition for 
failure to meet an evidentiary requirement. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). USCIS policy states: 
"Approval or denial of a petition is based on the type and quality of evidence submitted rather than 
assumptions about the failure to address different criteria." Id. Thus, the number of additional 
evidentiary criteria beyond the requisite amount that the Petitioner meets does not necessarily merit 
his petition's approval. 
The Petitioner also contends that the Director's final merits detennination did not apply the proper 
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard of review and overlooked proof of his sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Petitioner, however, does not specify any examples of the Director's 
purported application of an improper review standard or disregard of evidence. The Petitioner 
therefore has not demonstrated the claimed errors. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) (requiring an appeal 
"to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact") ( emphasis added); see 
also Medina v. Garland, 850 Fed. Appx. 556,557 (9th Cir. 2021) (finding a noncitizen's "conclusory 
argument" insufficient to demonstrate the review standard's purported misapplication). 
The Petitioner has not established extensive recognition of his achievements in his field of expertise 
identifying him among that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field. We will 
therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
B. Continued U.S. Work in the Field 
Our finding of insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's claimed placement among the small percentage 
at the top of his field resolves this appeal. Thus, we need not reach, and hereby reserve his appellate 
arguments regarding his intent to continuing his stage acting work in the United States. See 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant did not otherwise meet their burden 
of proof). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated extensive recognition of his achievements identifying him as one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field. We will therefore affirm the 
petition's denial. 
3 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF N-K-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 9, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a trek and expedition guide to mountain climbers, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visa available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition 
Alien Worker. We subsequently dismissed the Petitioner's appeal.1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider and a motion to reopen. Upon review, we will 
deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
evidence if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at 
least three criteria, we will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 2 
1 See Matter of N-K-S-, ID# 1646720 (AAO Oct. 23, 2018). 
2 See Kazarian v. users, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. users, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
Matter of N-K-S-
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. BACKGROUND 
The Director denied the pet1t10n, finding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On motion, the Director affirmed his decision 
but found that the Petitioner fulfilled one criterion, leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, we withdrew the Director's determination regarding the leading or 
critical role criterion and concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the criteria, as well as the 
requirements for comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that he satisfied 
at least three criteria. In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner presents additional documentation relating 
to three of the criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. Further, the new evidence submitted 
in support of the motion to reopen does not demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied any criteria. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner contends that he meets four criteria, as 
well as an additional criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. He does not, however, 
specifically argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Instead, 
he makes assertions of eligibility under the respective evidentiary criteria without addressing our 
decision except for our finding as it relates to the published material criterion. Disagreeing with our 
conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradict 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 
Matter of N-K-S-
submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
decision). Here, we will address below the Petitioner's references to the published material criterion, 
along with his argument for comparable evidence, and discuss his new claims of eligibility and 
submission of new evidence under the motion to reopen section. 
Regarding the published material criterion, the Petitioner references an article published in the Golden 
Transcript and asserts that we "referred only as the participant of the event however the Event was 
organized acknowledge the Mountaineering and the achievement/struggle" (note: errors in the 
original text have not been changed). The record reflects that we found that although the article was 
about his work in the field, he did not demonstrate that the Golden Transcript constituted a 
professional or major trade publication or major medium. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 3 Here, the 
Petitioner did not address or dispute our finding or establish that the Golden Transcript is a 
professional or major trade or other major medium. 
As it relates to comparable evidence, the Petitioner contends that "we discuss on two more criteria that 
needs to be evaluated through comparative evidence." However, the Petitioner only makes arguments 
relating to one criterion, awards. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner asserts that "the praises to [him] 
should be seen as award[s] he achieved from his hard work, skills and knowledge in the field." In our 
decision, we thoroughly analyzed and discussed his arguments relating to comparable evidence and 
determined that he did not demonstrate that the regulatory criteria do not readily apply to his 
occupation and that the evidence in the record is comparable. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).4 Although 
he continues to make claims regarding the inapplicability of "many of the Regulatory criteria" and 
"the Historic Lack of Acknowledgement Sherpa Achievements," he did not substantiate his assertions 
through documentary evidence, nor did he show how we previously erred or incorrectly applied 
policy. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the criteria do not readily apply to Sherpas and 
mountain guides and why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claimed to meet four criteria without the submission of comparable 
evidence, including memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that Sherpas or mountain 
guides cannot present evidence relating to the other criteria, such as awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The fact that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation that fulfills at 
least three is not evidence that an individual could not do so or that it does not readily apply. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not show how receiving "praises" is truly comparable to receiving lesser 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12 (stating that a petitioner should explain why he has 
not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why 
the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)). 
5 In fact, we pointed out in our decision that the Petitioner undermined his own argument when he claimed comparable 
evidence for published material and submitted a New York Times article about Sherpas, confirming that published material 
does readily apply to his occupation. 
3 
Matter of N-K-S-
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. As such, the 
Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies for an additional criterion, as well as other criteria, through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
~viously determined that the Petitioner's membership with the 
L__J did not satisfv the membershio criterion. On motion the Petitioner indicates his membershio 
with the 
I and I I He submits a letter froml c==.; lchief administrative officer forl l who confirmed the Petitioner's membyshi~p-l w-1-·th ..... 
L__J. In addition, he presents a letter froml I general secretary for who 
claimed thatl hs an exclusive association that limits its membership to only those elite 
mountaineers who have been successful in summiting the highest mountain in the world." We note 
that the Petitioner does not offer on motion any additional documentation regarding I I and I I Regardless, the letters do not demonstrate that the associations require outstanding 
achievements for membership, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field 
of expertise. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 6 Moreover, whilec=J limits membership to those who 
have summited Mt. Everest, the Petitioner did not show that I I membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, we found that his recommendation letters did not establish that he made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 7 On motion, the 
Petitioner discusses letters that have already been submitted, reviewed, and considered; accordingly, 
we will not address them in this proceeding. The Petitioner presents three additional letters reflecting ~ instances where the Petitioner assisted and rescued climbers. For example,! I 
L__J indicated an occasion when the Petitioner "worked very hard to rescue the injured and bring 
back bodies" as a result of a helicopter crash. Moreover,! I recounted a time when the 
Petitioner "stage[ d] and execute d a hi h-altitude rescue from the summit of Mt. Everest that would 
have resulted in the death of an I I climber, if [the Petitioner] had not 
succeeded." Further, .__ ____ _.described the Petitioner's "expertise in the rescue and body 
recovery efforts after the 2014 avalanche." As discussed in our appellate decision, while we recognize 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6-7 (providing an example of admission to membership 
in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
7 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Matter of N-K-S-
the personal impact he has had in rescuing others on Mt. Everest, he did not demonstrate that his 
contributions rise to a level of major significance in the overall field. 8 
As it relates fo the )eadjng o: critical role criterion, we determined that the Petitioner's submission of 
a letter from._ ______ _.J the co-owner and program director for I I demonstrated that he performed in a leadership role or wa~s_c_r-it-ic_a_l_t_o-th-e-su_c_c_e_s_s_o_f __ -th-e~ 
organization. See 8 C.F-f. § 20(5(h)(3)(viii). 9 Moreover, we found that the Petitioner did not provide 
objective evidence from website to corroborate its claims of a distinguished reputation.10 On 
motion, he presents another letter froml I who indicated that the Petitioner "has a very 
unique skill set that includes strong interpersonal skills working with guides and clients, high altiµ.ide.., 
adaptation, and the technical climbing techniques necessary for this demanding job." Althoughl_J I praised the Petitioner for his skills, he did not establish that those skills resulted in a leading 
role or contributed to the overall success ofc=J Here, I I updated letter does not 
contain specif\c detailed information refl~ the nature of the Petitioner's role withD 11 In 
addition, whil~ I claimed thatL_j "is one of the largest mountain guide services in the 
world," the Petitioner did not offer any supporting evidence showingDs distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate that he has fulfilled at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria.12 In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met 
8 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10 (indicating that the evidence must either establish that the 
individual is or was a leader or that he contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities). 
10 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction. 
or excellence). 
11 Id. at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
12 As the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Moreover, we need not consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his 
area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
5 
Matter of N-K-S-
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of N-K-S-, ID# 3463758 (AAO July 9, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17537282 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an athlete competing in weightlifting , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and affirmed that decision on a 
subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider, concluding that the record did not establish , 
as required, that the Petitioner had a qualifying one-time achievement or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, which we dismissed. The matter is 
now before us on a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. To merit reopening, a petitioner must not only 
meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. We 
cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that we dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on July 6, 2020 and mailed the decision 
to the Petitioner and former counsel. The Petitioner filed the instant motion to reopen on Februaty 8, 
2021, 21 7 days after we issued the unfavorable decision. 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date USCIS mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirus 
(COVID-l 9)pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would 
be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable decision. Based on this extended deadline, 1he 
Petitioner's motion to reopen would have been deemed timely filed if received by USCIS on or before 
September 8, 2020. 
With respect to a motion to reopen, "failure to file before this period expires may be excused in the 
discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the 
control of the applicant or petitioner." See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). For the reasons discussed below, 
we conclude that the Petitioner filed his motion to reopen late and has not demonstrated that the 
untimely filing was reasonable and beyond his control. 
In a statement accompanying the late motion, the Petitioner states: 
I ... apologize and request for excuse for filing motion to reopen late because of 
unforeseen reasons. I could not file motion to reopen for Administrative Appeals 
Office decision on time because ofCovid-19. Due to Covid-19 many law offices were 
closed in East Coast also due to Quarantine regulations in Uzbekistan. Please accept 
the excuse for the late filing. 
As noted above, USCIS has extended filing deadlines for appeals and motions filed on Form I-290B 
to account for anticipated delays associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Petitioner's brief 
explanation is lacking detail regarding the specific reasons for the lengthy delay in filing this motion 
and is not accompanied by any supporting documentation. This statement alone does not demonstrate 
why he reasonably required seven months to file his motion, which is well beyond the extended 
deadline provided by USCIS to provide additional flexibility during the pandemic. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish that the late filing was reasonable and beyond his control 
Based on the limited explanation provided, the Petitioner has not met this burden, and we will not 
exercise our discretion to excuse the late filing of his motion to reopen. The motion to reopen will be 
dismissed as untimely filed, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(i). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10802044 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor a~ I College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed ten motions filed by the Petitioner 
between 2014 and 2019. Most recently, we dismissed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider 
on February 12, 2020. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The implementing 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence 
requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his tenth 
motion, a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, was based on an incorrect application 
of law or USCIS policy. 1 
On motion, the Petitioner places particular emphasis on his receipt of an •I I Award" in 2005, 
asserting that it should be considered evidence of a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 
2 04. 5 (h )(3 ), or evidence of a nationally or internationally recognized award consistent with 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). In our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing the Petitioner's tenth motion, we noted 
that we had previously explained that the record did not demonstrate that the I I Award" the 
Petitioner received enjoyed international recognition in his field. Further, we emphasized that, in his 
previous motion, the Petitioner did not address our determination that even though he claimed to have 
received an international! !Award" in 2005, the record did not demonstrate that the 
international edition of the award existed prior to 2010. 2 
The Petitioner asserts that our statement regarding the existence of the award prior to 2010 is 
"completely wrong" and that he "truly received .. ) I Award in the year 2005." The Petitioner 
has misconstrued our determination regarding this award. The record reflects his receipt of a "Prize I 12005," but we determined that the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support his 
claim that this prize was a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
1 Regarding motions to reopen or reconsider, 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(ii) states in relevant part: "The official having 
jurisdiction is the official who made the la test decision in the proceeding unless the affected party moves to a new 
jurisdiction ." The latest decision was our February 12, 2020, decision dismissing the Petitioner's tenth motion. Therefore , 
a review of any claims or assertions that the Petitioner's instant motion raises is limited in scope and is restricted to that 
decision. 
2 The Petitioner submitted a certificate issued b...=In=s=tit=u=t ,___ __ =in-'-'2=0a..ala..al.,_c"""onfirming his receipt of "the Prize._! __ ...., 
2005 in the categonJ b by practicing etitionerclairned his a ward was an 
"Intemationall I Award." The record reflects that the "International Award" is a different a ward issued 
by the same institution and does not contain evidence of its issuance prior to 2010. 
2 
field. 3 Our determination that his 20051 I award is not the same as an "International~I --~ 
Award," is based on evidence in the record indicating that the international edition of the award was 
first presented in 2010. We never made a determination that the Petitioner did not receive anl I 
award in 2005. 
The Petitioner disagrees with our determination that there is insufficient evidence to establish that his 
2005 award from thd I Institute is a qualifying nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award, or a qualifying one-time achievement. However, he has not established how we incorrectly 
applied the law or users policy by reaching that determination or by dismissing his previous motion. 
The Petitioner also contends that we made a "sad mistake" in our decision dated February 12, 2020, 
noting that we stated on page 3 that "the only appeal filed by the Petitioner was on October 7, 2013." 
He emphasizes that elsewhere we "said exactly the opposite," noting that our decision stated on page 
2 that we had issued nine motion decisions between 2014 and 2019. Based on these statements, the 
Petitioner asserts that "it looks like ... AAO ignored all the important motions between 2014 and 
2019." 
In his prior motion, the Petitioner argued that he had received incorrect correspondence from us 
inf mming him that we did not have a record of a pending appeal with our office. Moreover, he 
requested that we inform the Director that he has a pending appeal in order to maintain his pending 
status relating to his Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. m 
support of his prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted copies of our November 2018 
correspondence and the Director's October 2018 decision dismissing his motion to reconsider the 
denial of his Fmm I-485. 
In adjudicating the motion to reopen, we concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his 
newly submitted evidence (the November 2018 correspondence and the Director's October 2018 
decision) related to our prior decision denying his ninth motion filing. 4 Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not show how the correspondence and the Form I-485 decision established his eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l )(A) of Act. Accordingly, we dismissed the 
motion to reopen. 
With the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not articulated an argument that we 
misapplied the law or users policy by dismissing his prior motion to reopen. Moreover, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has filed only one appeal of the denial of his Form I-140, and that we have 
adjudicated all ten of his previous motions and did not "ignore" them as claimed in the current motion. 
Although appeals and motions are both filed on Form I-2 90B, they are separate proceedings governed 
by separate regulations and the terms are not used interchangeably. We did not err by stating that the 
Petitioner has only filed one appeal. 
3 In our decision dated February 4.2019, we acknowledged that the Director determined in his 2012 decision that the 
Petitioner's j !Award" qualified as a nationally recognized award. We explained why the record did not support 
this determination. 
4 We also observed that the record did notsupportthe Petitioner's claim thatthe November2018 correspondence from our 
office was incorrect. We noted that the only appeal filed by the Petitioner was the one filed onOctober7. 2013, which we 
dismissed on July 25,2014. In addition, we emphasized that any issues relating to his Form 1-485 should be addressed in 
a separate proceeding to the Director, as we do nothavejurisdictionoverhis adjustment of status application. 
3 
In the remainder of his brief on motion, the Petitioner refers to previously submitted evidence of his 
professional achievements and asserts that he established his eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. He requests that we "look at the hundreds of documents, 
translations, letters of authorities, evidence and facts." However, he makes no additional allegations 
that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our February 12, 2020 decision dismissing his 
tenth motion. The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the "nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and is othe1wise qualified for the 
requested classification, and his repetition of arguments he previously made in support of his appeal 
and prior motions, do not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
Moreover, the Petitioner's request that we conduct a de novo review of the entire record is not properly 
before us on motion and is outside the scope of this proceeding, which is limited to a review of our 
most recent prior decision. We have previously conducted a de novo review of this matter, thoroughly 
analyzed the Petitioner's evidence, and concluded that he met only two of the regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three in order to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our prior decision, dated February 12, 
2020, was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy, or that it was incorrect based on 
the evidence in the record at the time. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 9, 2024 In Re: 31673040 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Petitioner filed the Form 1-140 petition in December 2020. The Director of the Nebraska Service 
Center denied the petition in June 2022, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner 
had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We dismissed a subsequent 
appeal in February 2023; a motion to reopen in June 2023; and a motion to reconsider in December 
2023. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner discusses an air purifier that uses ultraviolet (UV) light, which we briefly 
mentioned in our December 2023 decision. The Petitioner submits photographs showing that he 
brought a prototype of the device to a scientific conference, and that a device has been installed in a 
classroom at thel IThe Petitioner asserts that these new facts establish 
eligibility, because the UV air purifier is more effective than vaccines at preventing the spread of 
COVID-19. The Petitioner repeats his earlier claim that COVID-19 is caused by fungal or bacterial 
spores, rather than a virus, and therefore vaccines are not effective against it. 1 
1 The Petitioner cites no evidence that would overturn the widespread scientific consensus that COVID-19 is caused by a 
virus, specifically SARS-COV-2. 
The Petitioner had also previously asserted that UV air purifiers were widely used in the 
area, but he did not submit evidence to show that the devices in use were the ones he had helped to 
invent. He also did not show that he originated the idea of using UV rays to purify air or that he had 
made significant contributions to the advancement ofrelated technology. 
In his latest motion, his third overall, the Petitioner makes additional assertions about his UV air 
purifier. For example, he asserts that he has made an "improvement on [the] current device," using 
an enclosed, fan-driven ventilator to purify air without exposing people to potentially harmful UV 
rays. The Petitioner submits photographs of a prototype device, and asserts that his research appeared 
in a "published journal on ... social media." The Petitioner does not submit a copy ofthe article itself 
or proof of its publication, nor does he submit evidence to establish recognition of the claimed 
significance of his invention. 
Publications can be relevant to eligibility, because the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) relates to 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. When the Petitioner first filed his petition, he did not claim to have published any scholarly 
articles. In his first motion, the Petitioner referred to "publications" in the form of "a couple of new 
patents." Patents are not scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, and the patents discussed do not appear to relate to UV air purifiers. 
The Petitioner's new assertions do not constitute new facts that would warrant reopening the petition. 
The Petitioner has not documented or even fully identified his claimed publications relating to UV air 
purification. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that these newly claimed publications or his advanced prototype 
existed at the time he filed the petition in December 2020. The Petitioner must meet eligibility 
requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). New facts after the filing 
date cannot establish eligibility as of the priority date. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 
(Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
The Petitioner states: "the judge did not receive core information he wanted from my part, and 
start[ed] to harass my suppliers." The Petitioner does not identify "the judge," and he does not explain 
or document the claimed harassment of the Petitioner's suppliers. The Petitioner also asserts: 
I received complain[t]s from one working partner that they received a $SM order 
directly from [the] U.S. government to order the light bulb and request them to 
produc[e] the light that I have made and invented. . . . If you don't like what I have 
presented in my petition[, t]hen why do you make such an order from my supplier. And 
try to pretend nothing ever happened to me. 
The Petitioner submits no evidence to corroborate his claims. His assertions lack any details that 
would permit us to verify them. Most importantly for our purposes, the Petitioner does not explain, 
on motion, how his new claims show that he meets the specific requirements for classification as an 
2 
individual of extraordinary ability. Rather, he asserts that we do not fully understand the significance 
of his invention. 
For the reasons discussed above, the new facts claimed on motion do not establish eligibility. We will 
therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our December 2023 decision, dismissing the Petitioner's second motion, we stated: "Because the 
Petitioner does not show how we misapplied law or point to policy contradicting our analysis of the 
evidence, the motion does not satisfy the requirements for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition 
remains denied." Our December 2023 decision was not a decision on the merits of the petition; we 
had addressed those merits in earlier decisions. Therefore, further arguments concerning those merits 
cannot show that our December 2023 decision was in error. 
Although we have notified the Petitioner that the scope of a motion is limited to the immediate prior 
decision, the Petitioner's latest motion raises merits issues that did not arise in our December 2023 
decision. For example, the Petitioner states that we lack "basic knowledge to understand" the 
significance of his inventions, and that we have engaged in "fishing" by attempting to persuade him 
to reveal confidential information about those inventions. But our December 2023 decision contained 
no statements to that effect; we did not discuss the Petitioner's inventions or their claimed significance, 
nor did we state that the Petitioner could overcome prior dismissals by submitting confidential 
information. Therefore, the Petitioner's contentions do not establish error in our prior decision. 
The Petitioner asserts that our prior decisions lack "any logic," rely on circular reasoning, and "mis­
use the law." The Petitioner, however, does not elaborate or cite any specific error of law or policy. 
The general assertion that unspecified errors exist in our December 2023 decision is not a sufficient 
basis for reconsideration of that decision. The Petitioner also has not shown that our December 2023 
decision was incorrect based on the record as it was constituted at the time. 
The Petitioner's motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will 
dismiss the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 9, 2024 In Re: 31570227 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fitness trainer and instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a fitness trainer and instructor who specializes in yoga and facial gymnastics, intends 
to continue her activities as a trainer and instructor in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed to meet the plain language 
requirements ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to memberships (ii), published 
materials (iii),judging (iv), original contributions of major significance (v), scholarly articles (vi), and 
high salary (ix), the Director determined that she satisfied none of them. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains eligibility for these six criteria and asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous. 
Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 's} membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines ifthe association for which the person 
claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by 
recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The petitioner must show that membership in the association 
2 
I requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification 1s sought, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Id. 
Here, the Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on her membership with the 
International Association of Professional Facial Gymnastics Coaches. The Petitioner submitted 
information regarding the association, as well as her membership certificate and a document outlining 
the association's regulations on membership. She also submitted three letters from yoga instructors 
regarding the association's standards. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that her initial evidence did not 
meet the plain language of this criterion. The Director provided a list of the types of evidence she 
could provide to establish eligibility and advised her of the need for certified English translations of 
any foreign language documentation submitted. In response, the Petitioner submitted online articles 
about the association and its founder. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient 
evidence establishing her membership in the association or that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. Although the Director acknowledged the documentation submitted, it was noted 
that the documentation was not accompanied by the required certified English translations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner directs our attention to a translation accuracy certificate by I 
I dated January 14, 2022, which was submitted with the petition and certifies the accuracy 
of the translation of the Petitioner's membership certificate and the association's regulations on 
membership. Contrary to the Director's determination, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that a 
proper certificate of translation was submitted with regard to these specific documents. 
Nevertheless, the submitted evidence is insufficient to meet the criterion. Specifically, the document 
outlining the association's regulations for membership, which provides for "full" and "corporate" 
members in Section 2.1, states as follows in Section 2.2: 
The status of a Full Member ofthe Association is obtained by fully capable individuals 
who do not have a criminal record, recognize and comply with the Charter of the 
Association, pay the necessary fees on time and have a diploma of taking courses of 
professional trainers in gymnastics for a person (face building), accredited by the 
association. 
This document does not demonstrate that the requirements for membership are comparable to the 
regulatory requirement of outstanding achievements, nor does it demonstrate that admittance to this 
association is determined by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. Rather, it 
suggests that any individual meeting the threshold requirements outlined above and who pay the required 
fees are eligible for membership. 
Although the submitted certificate establishes her membership in the association, the record does not 
contain sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate the membership eligibility requirements for the 
claimed association, how members are selected, and that the Petitioner's membership in this association 
3 
was based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field of facial gymnastics. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
In d________________ enying the petition, the Director noted the Petitioner's submission of an article entitled 
and first noted that this article, which was submitted in 
English, was not accompanied by a certification from a translator. In addition, the Director noted that 
the article appeared to be written by the Petitioner and that the record did not contain sufficient 
evidence that the website on which it appeared qualifies as either a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the article referenced by the Director was intended to demonstrate 
her eligibility under the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and notes that the 
Director overlooked the intended article for consideration under this criterion, which was submitted 
initially in support of the petition. Upon review of the record, we agree that the Director did not 
consider the article entitled and we 
will consider it here. 1 
Both ofthe above-referenced articles were posted to www.24.kz, the website ofKhabar 24, a television 
station reporting on news in Kazakhstan, along with information about Khabar 24 published by 
Wikipedia. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner's counsel provided additional information 
about Khabar 24 in his response letter, citing information obtained from SimilarWeb Ltd. 
While it appears that both articles are about the Petitioner and her work, both articles lack author 
information.2 In addition, the articles were not shown to have been published in one of the qualifying 
types of media. While we note the Petitioner's submission of documentation from Wikipedia 
regarding Khabar 24, there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, 
user-edited Internet site, and note that the Petitioner was advised of this evidentiary deficiency in the 
1 Because we conduct appellate review on a de novo basis, we find the Director's failure to consider this additional article 
published by Khabar 24 hannless error. 
2 We further note that both articles are submitted in English and the Petitioner asserts that Khabar 24 publishes in multiple 
languages. However, we note that the article ___________________ misspells the 
Petitioner's name in both the title and body of the article. While it is unclear whether the article was originally published 
in English or another language and thus warrants a certified translation, the Petitioner must nevertheless resolve 
discrepancies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 l&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
4 
RFE. The information from Wikipedia, therefore, will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See 
Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 3 
On appeal, Petitioner's counsel refers to the RFE response, in which he referred to site traffic statistics 
about the www.24.kz website that he claims were obtained from the website of Similar Web Ltd. The 
Petitioner did not offer comparative circulation statistics or other evidence to corroborate her counsel's 
claim. Moreover, assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N 
Dec. 533,534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter ofRamirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503,506 (BIA 1980)). 
Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may 
include affidavits and declarations. Here, the record lacks such evidence. As the Petitioner submitted 
no other evidence to support her claim that the website qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media, we agree with the Director's conclusion that she has not shown that 
she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's} authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5 (h )( 3 )(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements, and the Petitioner must submit evidence 
satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The first element requires that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her field. We consider 
these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly 
article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a 
researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. 
The second area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for 
learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge 
or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner contends she qualifies for this criterion based on her article entitled I _____I Ipublished on the Khabar 24 website at www.24.kz. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not established that her published work was a scholarly article 
intended for learned persons in her field, noting that it was written for a general public audience. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states that the article "intertwines her life narratives with a theoretical exploration 
3 See also information from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer, accessed on July 9, 2024, which 
indicates that Wikipedia's content is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information .... 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
5 
of female physiology and an appraisal of the advantages of physical exercise," and therefore is 
"emblematic of its scientific nature." 
While we acknowledge the assertions on appeal that the article explores the Petitioner's personal 
journey through pregnancy and post-childbirth and discusses the benefits and positive impacts ofyoga 
on motherhood, she has not established that the content she created constitutes a "scholarly article" or 
that its intended audience was "learned persons" in the field. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in a professional 
publication, a major trade publication, or in a form of major media. Regarding the medium in which 
the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the publication's circulation statistics are high 
relative to similar publications and should also establish the publication's intended audience. Id. 
The Director declined to consider this second element when denying the petition. Upon review, we 
conclude that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence that the Khabar 24 website is a 
professional or major trade publication, or other major media. As discussed previously in this decision, 
the documentation from Wikipedia regarding Khabar 24 holds no evidentiary weight, and counsel's 
assertions regarding Khabar 24's site traffic were not supported by objective documentary evidence 
or comparative circulation statistics. We therefore cannot conclude that the website on which her 
article appeared qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media, 
Accordingly, as neither element ofthis criterion has been satisfied, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
While the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's documentation in support of eligibility under this 
criterion, including testimonial letters, evidence of the establishment of her own yoga studio, and 
supplemental evidence consisting of her training and certificates acknowledging various personal 
achievements, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not provided evidence demonstrating that 
she had made original contributions of major significance relevant to yoga of facial gymnastics. On 
appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes the expansion and diversification of her educational and training 
domains and asserts that the Director did not afford sufficient weight to the testimonials letters offered 
in support ofher eligibility under this criterion. She points to her establishment ofher own yoga studio 
and her accomplishments in the field, as well as various letters of support from others in the industry, 
as evidence of the impact of her contributions. 
6 
The letters submitted in support of this criterion praise the Petitioner for her talents and experience. 4 
For example, letters from and 
discuss her coaching courses in the area of facial yoga and claim they helped inspire them to pursue 
new endeavors in the field. A letter from praises the Petitioner's yoga 
classes and describes the benefits obtained from them, and further notes that she was also inspired to 
open her own yoga studio as a result. A letter from ____ ___,compliments the Petitioner on her 
abilities in hatha yoga. In general, the letters expresses gratitude for the Petitioner's expertise and 
exceptional service in instruction and coaching. Although the letters praise the Petitioner for her skills, 
they do not explain what specific contributions the Petitioner has made to the fields of yoga and facial 
gymnastics, or how they are "of major significance in the field." The letters primarily contain 
attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without providing specific examples of contributions 
that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but 
do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to 
establish original contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd 
in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. The letters also describe specific events and accomplishments in the 
Petitioner's history, but do not establish that the Petitioner's personal accomplishments and 
experiences have risen to a level of constituting original contributions of major significance to the 
overall field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had 
not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in her field as a whole). 
The testimonial evidence in the record, as well as her certificates of achievement, demonstrate that the 
Petitioner received recognition for her accomplishments in yoga and facial gymnastics instruction and 
has inspired others. However, this evidence does not contain specific, detailed information explaining 
how her contributions have been both original and of major significance in the field. As noted by the 
Director, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that her yoga strategies or techniques 
have been replicated or are impacting the field more broadly. While we recognize the personal 
accomplishments she has achieved in opening her own yoga studio and implementing her own 
teaching methods, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her contributions rise to a level of major 
significance in the overall field. Having a diverse skill set is not a contribution of major significance 
in-and-of itself. Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used 
those unique skills to impact the field at a significant level. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance to the field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy two additional criteria related to judging and high salary 
on appeal, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them as she cannot meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-
26 (1976) ( stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and 
decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 
(BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
TIT. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of her achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-P-D-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 10, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a table tennis coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown that he met any of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a table tennis coach. As he has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director held that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria for awards, membership, published material, original 
contributions of major significance, display, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii), (iii), (v), (vii), and (viii). Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not met this criterion. In referencing the awards received by 
the players the Petitioner coached, the Director held that in order for him to meet this criterion he must 
be the recipient of an award for his role as a coach. The Director then acknowledged an award the 
Petitioner received for his work with the I ltable tennis team, but he held that the record did 
not establish what criteria was used to give this award. The Director also held that he had not shown 
that this amounted to a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has received distinguished awards and honors for excellence in 
the field as a top international table tennis coach. The record contains an article from the s orts section 
of thel !Daily newspaper entitled, " 
states that the Petitioner "received the trophy from [the] President of the.__ _______ ___, 
2 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
,I l who congratulated him for his work for the 
~d_e_v_e-lo_p_m_e_n_t_o_f_T_a_b_l_e~Tennis inl land the region." The record contains another article about 
this award from the sports section of the I I Daily newspaper entitled, 
.__....,.....,--.,.....----....,......,.....---,-,1' which has a photograph of the Petitioner rec~e_i_v-in_g_a_t_r_o_p_h_y_. _T_h__.e 
Petitioner has not explained how this represents a nationally or internationally recognized award or 
submitted evidence that would establish this award as having the level of recognition required under 
this criterion. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this 
award represents a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, as 
required to establish eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he noted that the Petitioner had submitted evidence 
showing that he is a member of several table tennis associations but that the record did not establish 
that these required outstanding achievements of their members. Following receipt of the Petitioner's 
response to the RFE, the Director held that the Petitioner had not submitted the constitution or bylaws 
that discuss the membership requirements of these organizations, noting that letters discussing 
membership are not primary evidence. In the appeal brief, the Petitioner states that "the record 
contains clear evidence of [his] extensive coaching credentials with highly competitive, distinguished, 
and selective international athletic organizations including the 
" 
With the exception of one identification card from the Sport Association ofl I we note that 
the record does not contain direct evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner has membership in any 
organization, including those noted above. Rather, the record contains several letters from individuals 
who have worked closely with the Petitioner that reference his affiliation with those organizations, but 
these letters do not attest to his membership in them. The documentation from these organizations in 
the record pertains to the coaching certification courses he has taken, but these do not expressly 
indicate his membership in the organizations. 
Second, even if the record contained evidence of his membership in these organizations, the Petitioner 
has not shown that they require outstanding achievements as a prerequisite for membership as judged 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. He contends on appeal that the record 
demonstrates that these organizations "only select coaches and athletes of the highest caliber for 
membership and participation in their activities," but he has not provided evidence supporting his 
assertion. Additionally, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how being a "high caliber" coach or player 
constitutes an outstanding achievement to meet the requirements of this criterion. Here, the Petitioner 
has not provided documentation of the criteria these organizations use for granting membership or 
documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of those individuals judging an applicant for 
admission. 
3 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
While the record does contain an identification card from the Sport Association ofl lwithin 
the I I the Petitioner has not established that membership in this organization is based on 
outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
The record does not contain the organization's bylaws or similar evidence demonstrating the criteria 
upon which its membership is based, nor does it establish that nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field are the judges of an individual's achievements for membership in this organization. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the articles submitted do not meet this criterion because they are not primarily 
focused on the Petitioner. The Director farther concluded that the Petitioner had not demonstrated 
that the material was published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has significant published material about his coaching career 
that was published in major international media. He specifically notes that the record includes "media 
articles and high-level competition results for the distinguished athletes and team(s) he has coached." 
Here, we find that the majority of the publications in the record quote him in discussing competitions 
that his players are involved in, but the Petitioner has not explained how these articles are about him. 
Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
about a show are not about the actor). 
As discussed above, the record also contains two articles from the sports section ofthel I Daily 
newspaper. While a portion of these articles discusses the Petitioner's work in developing table tennis 
in the region, the focus of them is on the I I table tennis team, and the Petitioner has not 
explained how the are about him. Both titles of these articles discuss the team or the players under 
the headlines and 'l ~ 
While the latter article contains quotations from the Petitioner and a 
photograph of him receiving an award, the titles correspond with the substance of the articles that are 
focused on the team. Additionally, even if the Petitioner had established that these articles are about 
him, he has not provided documentation of the circulation details of these publications or other similar 
evidence to establish that this material represents publications in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
4 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). The term "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion due to his "massivication" recruitment and 
development program that he implemented at Club I I the 
I I and th~el===.--------------,-----tJ. Specifically, he states that his 
,:;.=:..i.... ___ __. represents an original contribution of major significance because he turned 
the club int __ __....,"most acclaimed youth table tennis program" from 1998 to 2015. He also states 
that several~--~ media articles cite his contributions to the sport. For the I I he states that 
his original contributions are established through the evidence of the various youth development 
recruitment programs he has instituted over the past three years, and he asserts the same is true for his 
involvement with thd I 
Withd~espect t~ ris work with Club I I and as discussed above, the record contaffis an article 
in th Daily newspaper indicating that the Petitioner received a trophy from the president 
of the The article states that the president of the I !congratulated the Petitioner for his 
work on "the development of Table Tennis i~ land the region." While this demonstrates the 
successes the Petitioner had in coaching at Club I I and in the region, the Petitioner has not 
described how these successes or his "massivication" program indicates that he has made original 
contributions that have had a significant impact in the field, and he has not submitted supporting 
documentation to establish this. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036; aftd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 
(holding that the petitioner had not established how his contributions had influenced the field to equate 
to contributions of major significance). 
Regarding the Petitioner's work with the.__ ________ _,, the record reflects that he has 
successfully helped grow the sport of table tennis through his involvement with these organizations in 
these areas where he has worked, but he has not shown how this work constitutes original contributions 
that have significan · d. The record contains two letters froml I chief 
executive officer 'r""""-----, ___ __p describing the Petitioner's roles with these organizations. In 
his second letter, .__ __ _. states that as head coach of the I J the Petitioner has coached top 
I I table tennis players who have achieved high levels of success, one of whom is ranked second 
of boys under 14 years of age in the I I and another is ranked first in boys under 12 years 
of age. While the impact of his coaching for these two young men is notable, in addition to the other 
individuals the Petitioner has coached that we will discuss further below, he has not explained how he 
has made original contributions as a coach that have impacted the field of table tennis . 
.__ __ ___.lalso states that the Petitioner has initiated numerous physical education programs in schools, 
table tennis clinics, and coaching camps, and that he has organized youth tournaments and I I 
school competitions in Wisconsin. However, the Petitioner has not explained how these physical 
education programs represent original contributions that have significantly impacted the field. Letters 
from experts may add value if they specifically articulate how a petitioner's original contributions are 
5 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
of major significance and what impact they had on subsequent work, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 1 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion on account of the number of athletes he has 
coached who have reached high levels in their sport. The r,card contains a Jetter froml I I I the general coordinator for the! , 1 6 I I Center in the city of ~------~2 He states that the 
Petitioner "initiated the work of forming a high performance competition team of 150 players th~ 
had great results at the state level." He indicates that the Petitioner trained players "such as L_J I IJ !Junior Team 2004) andl M lwho represents I land is the Best player of the Americas in Class 10 and ranked Top 20 internationally) who were 
in numerous international championships, World Games, Pan-American Games, and the 201 ~ I I" The Petitioner also provided a letter from I I in which h~e-c-la-im-s~ 
that he has no doubt that the training, support, and motivation that he received from the Petitioner 
enabled him to have such a successful career. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's success as a 
table tennis coach, he has not explained how the number of individuals he has coached, or the level of 
success they have attained, demonstrate that he has made original contributions that have had a major 
impact in the field. The term "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work 
has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that he has made original contributions that have significantly impacted the field 
to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that he met this criterion because he is not a 
visual artist and has not demonstrated that his work was on display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Petitioner states on appeal that his work has been extensively displayed at major international 
exhibitions and showcases in the sport of table tennis. He asserts that there is no reason to distinguish 
between athletic and artistic exhibitions or showcases. Here, we note that the regulation requires that 
the display of the individual's work is at "artistic exhibitions or showcases," and the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the athletic exhibitions he participated in equate to artistic exhibitions. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCTS/Laws/M emoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf 
2 While we do not cite to each letter in support of the petition, we have considered all of them. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 544 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (citing Chen v. US. Dep "t of Justice, 471 F.3d 315, 338 n. 17 (2d Cir. 2006)). 
6 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner plays a leading or critical role with the I I but that the record 
does not establish that this organization has a distinguished reputation in the field, which the Director 
noted is "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence."3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he meets this criterion for his role as the head coach of the I I 
and as the founder and head coach of the table tennis team Cluhl I The Petitioner states that 
his leading roles at Club was one of the reasons why he was "selected by thel I 
National 01 ic Committee and to represent! I at the 2003 ~-------' 
'---=--------------.-..---------' training course in Cuba." The Petitioner also 
indicates on appeal that his lef ding rote is shown by the recognition he received in 2004 for coaching 
excellence by the President of The record contains a letter frornl I 
the president of the I ~ble Tennis League, indicating that Club I lhas a distinguished 
reputation in I 7as a table tennis club, noting not only its growth in the region, but its 
successes as a club and in developing players who have corn eted at very high levels in the field. This 
is corroborated by the articles noted above in the in the aily newspaper in which the 
Petitioner received a trophy from the president of the~-~ for his work in expandiµg table te~nis in 
the region through Clubl I Accordingly, the record establishes that Clubl~----~Jhas a 
distinguished reputation. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion through his role as founder and head coach of Clu~ 14 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his work on display at international exhibitions or showcases 
should be considered as comparable evidence of the "showcase of his work in lieu of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii)," a criterion that requires "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's work in the field 
at artistic exhibitions or showcases." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 5 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. He 
has not asserted or demonstrated that he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to meet more than three criteria and it has been 
established that he meets two criteria. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that table tennis coaches 
cannot present evidence relating to at least three other regulatory criteria. As such, the Petitioner has 
not established that he is eligible to meet the initial evidence requirements through the submission of 
comparable evidence. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
4 As the Petitioner has established his leading or critical role with Club I I we need not address his role with the I I ~-_. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 
Matter of F-P-D-B-
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp, 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of F-P-D-B-, ID# 3157461 (AAO July 10, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 10, 2023 In Re: 27129749 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a public relations director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
I. MOTION TO REOPEN 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner does not state new facts or submit new evidence as required. Since her 
motion to reopen does not meet the regulatory requirements, it will be dismissed . 
II. MOTION TO RECONSIDER 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In her motion to reconsider, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision relating to 
three of the evidentiary criteria, including two that we reserved. She relies on federal district court 
decisions and USCIS policy memoranda to support her motion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that material was published about them and relating 
to their in the field of extraordinary ability. The petitioner need not be the only subject ofthe material, 
but it must include a substantial discussion of the petitioner's work and mention them in connection 
to the work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. The petitioner also must establish, through the submission of evidence of the publication's 
high circulation or viewership compared to others and evidence of its intended audience, that the 
publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Id. 
In our decision, we noted that the Petitioner submitted several articles, but that while at least one 
mentioned her by name, none ofthem were about her and her work in the field ofpublic relations. On 
motion, the Petitioner cites to an unpublished district court decision, Zizi v. Cuccinelli, 2021 WL 
2826713 (N.D. Cal 2021), which found that we were arbitrary and capricious in concluding that 
articles which focused on technology that the petitioner in that case developed were not about him. 
We note that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit 
court, the AAO is not bound to follow the published decision of a United States district court in cases 
arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning 
underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before the 
AAO; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
We farther note that to the extent that the decision in Zizi considers the evidentiary value of the 
evidence to that petitioner's overall claim of extraordinary ability when evaluating it under this 
criterion, it goes against the ninth circuit's previous decision in Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010), which forms the basis of USCIS policy. As stated in our previous decision, the plain 
language of the regulation requires both that published material be about the individual and that it 
relate to their work in the field. In accordance with Kazarian and USCIS policy, consideration of 
whether this evidence, as part of the totality of the record, also shows that the petitioner meets the 
overall standard as an individual of extraordinary ability takes place only in the final merits 
determination. Id. at 1121. We will therefore not follow the reasoning in this district court decision. 
The Petitioner argues that having her name listed as a point of contact on some of the articles shows 
that she led the related public relations projects, and the articles are therefore about her work. 
However, these articles only identify her as the press secretary for an organization or the contact person 
for an event, outside ofthe main text of the materials. As we stated in our previous decision, a passing 
2 
mention ofthe Petitioner is insufficient to make the articles about her. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not shown that she meets this criterion. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner does not challenge the adverse conclusions in our previous 
decision regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (ix), relating to evidence of her 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements, and high salary or significantly high remuneration. Instead, she asserts that 
we erred in not considering the evidence she submitted in support of her claims to the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), which relate to her claimed original business contributions of 
major significance to her field and her leading or critical for organizations with a distinguished 
reputation. 
We explained in our previous decision that because we concluded that she had not met at least one of 
the other criteria she had claimed, and thus could not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of at 
least three of the criteria, we were reserving adjudication on those two criteria. Where, as in this case, 
there is a clearly dispositive issue, we may decline to reach and thereby reserve any remaining issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C­
' 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). Because the Petitioner has not shown on motion that she meets any 
additional evidentiary criteria, she cannot meet the three criteria needed to meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement. In addition, she does not provide support to her argument that we erred in reserving 
those criteria in our previous decision. As such, we will again reserve those criteria. 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, and it is 
dismissed for that reason. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our previous 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our decision. 
Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 10, 2024 In Re: 31507489 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further determined that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and the Director specifically analyzed the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(vi), 
(viii)-(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner generally asserts that the Director "did not consider or review the 
submitted evidence" and he resubmits a copy of his brief provided in response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE). In the RFE response brief, the Petitioner asserted that the record satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v), (viii)-(ix). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the 
record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)-(vii) or (x), thereby waiving these criteria. 
See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 
237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). 1 The Petitioner does not overcome the Director's 
denial for the reasons discussed below. 
Before turning to the specific eligibility criteria, we first note that, on appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes 
the number of pages of documents he submitted in response to the Director's RFE and he objects to 
"the brief time USCIS took to review [his response]." The Petitioner also emphasizes on appeal that 
his RFE response consisted of "crystal clear evidence in an easy-to-follow 5670-page document and 
appendices," implying that a review of such a volume of information should not be challenging. We 
further note that, at the time the Petitioner submitted the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Workers, he also submitted a Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service, "to request faster 
processing of [the] Form I-140." Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services, All Forms, https://www.uscis.gov/forms/all-forms/. There is no mechanism 
provided by either statute or regulation for petitioners to request an exact number of processing days 
between a benefit request filing date and the date of the decision on the request. We further note that 
the number of pages of evidence is not an indicator of the probative value of that evidence, and the 
RFE response in general contains the same or similar information already in the record, which the 
Director need not discuss repetitiously. Therefore, we do not agree with the Petitioner's assertion that 
1 We note that, in the RFE response brief, the Petitioner asserted that the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) twice, without specifically addressing the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)-(vii) or (x). 
2 
the Director erred in "the brief time USCIS took to review" the RFE response. Regardless, as 
discussed below, the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria 
required for eligibility. 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's] receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of the following documents: 
• A W eidmuller Klippon Award from ______ generally dated 
"1990/91"; 
• A Safety A ward from dated 2004; and 
• A Project Excellence Award froml Idated 2010. 
The Director also acknowledged two certificates ofregistration and an academic diploma in the record; 
however, the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) regarding "prizes or awards 
for excellence in the field of endeavor" does not contemplate certificates of registration or academic 
diplomas. The Director noted that the Petitioner submitted statements regarding the awards; however, 
the Director observed that the Petitioner "did not submit independent, documentary evidence to 
establish that the awards are nationally or internationally awards [sic] for excellence in the field." 
Therefore, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, as 
required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As noted above, the Petitioner generally asserts on appeal that the Director "did not consider or review 
the submitted evidence." In the RFE response brief: the Petitioner asserted that his "exceptional work 
and significant contributions to the fields of [ e ]ngineering and [ m ]anagement have been recognized 
with the prestigious one-time Excellence and Achievement Award from widely 
recognized as the pinnacle of [ e ]ngineering and [ m ]anagement excellence worldwide." However, the 
submitted evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received such an award, nor does it 
demonstrate that this award is "widely recognized as the pinnacle of [ e ]ngineering and [ m ]anagement 
excellence worldwide," as he asserts. 
Instead, the Petitioner provided a copy of a Project Excellence A ward given by _______ 
to the Petitioner dated 2010. The Project Excellence Award states that it "is made in recognition of 
[the Petitioner's] outstanding commitment to complete all assigned tasks and projects in time and 
within the scope of work and set cost," not that it recognizes excellence in the field of endeavor, as 
contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In tum, the record contains a copy of a 
Safety Award given by I I to the Petitioner "for his continuing outstanding 
performance and commitment towards the health, safety and environment program of the ... 
Construction of _________ ... project." Both the Project Excellence Award and 
the Safety Award appear to be an internal company awards, given by an employer to its employees, 
based on the employee's contributions to the employer and its particular projects and endeavors. 
Therefore, non-employees do not appear to be eligible for either award, and neither award appears to 
be based on objective contributions to the field of endeavor beyond contributions to the particular 
3 
employer. More specifically, the record does not establish how these particular internal employer­
employee awards are "nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards," as contemplated by 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record also contains a copy of a W eidmuller Klippon Award given by the ______ 
Division ofTechnology to the Petitioner in 1991, which indicates that it is "for [t]he student achieving 
best results on the National Diploma in Engineering Course." However, the Petitioner does not 
establish that it is awarded for excellence in the field of endeavor; rather, the record indicates that it is 
given to students for their results in academic coursework relative to other students 
enrolled there at the same time. In tum, the record does not establish through objective, probative 
evidence that the Weidmuller Klippon Award-issued to students, not members of a particular field 
of endeavor-is "nationally or internationally recognized," as contemplated by the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For the foregoing reasons, the record does not sufficiently establish the Petitioner's receipt oflesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen's] membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence ofhis membership in the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and the Jordanian Engineers Association (JEA), to which 
the Petitioner appears to refer interchangeably as the Jordanian Chartered Distinguished Engineers 
Syndicate. However, the Director observed, "the [P]etitioner did not submit evidence, such as the 
constitution or bylaws of the associations, to establish that the associations require outstanding 
achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
field." Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does not contain documentation of the 
Petitioner's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
As noted above, the Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director "did not consider or review the 
submitted evidence." In the RFE response brief, the Petitioner described the ASME and the JEA and 
he asserted that they are "reputable institutions" and his membership therein satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
As the Director observed, the record does not establish, through objective documentary evidence, that 
the associations of which the Petitioner is a member require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Although the Petitioner submitted a document written in English that purports to be a summary of 
"documents required to register engineers in the Jordanian Engineers Association," neither that 
document nor the remainder of the record reflects that applications to the JEA are 'judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields," as required by the criterion 
4 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Moreover, that document indicates that "academic achievements" may 
qualify applicants for membership in lieu of "exceptional industrial, practical, technical, [or] service 
experiences" and the copy of the JEA membership certificate in the record indicates that the extent of 
the Petitioner's qualifications at the time he was awarded membership in 1995 was "the engineering 
degree certificate [he] obtained from the ______ in the United Kingdom, dated 
06/27/1994." Neither the JEA membership certificate nor the remainder of the record indicates how 
the Petitioner accomplished "outstanding achievements" and what achievements he accomplished as 
contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Further, this lack ofclarity is notable since 
the Petitioner was given membership in the JEA only one year after he completed his engineering 
degree program. 
In turn, the record does not contain evidence of the ASME's membership criteria, and the copy of the 
Petitioner's ASME membership certificate in the record does not elaborate on how he qualified for 
this membership. 
Therefore, the record does not establish that the Petitioner is a member of associations in the field for 
which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields and it does not satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the [noncitizen] in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen 's] work in the field for which 
class[fication is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of "reports prepared by the 
[P]etitioner in the course ofhis duties and employment as an engineer," noting that "the plain language 
of this criterion requires that the published material be about the [P]etitioner, not by the [P]etitioner," 
The Director observed that the Petitioner did not submit material about him and his work in the field 
published in relevant media. Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does not contain 
evidence ofpublished material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to his work in the field for which classification is sought, as required by the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As noted above, the Petitioner generally asserts on appeal that the Director "did not consider or review 
the submitted evidence." In the RFE response brief, the Petitioner asserted that his own published 
documents satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As the Director explained, the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
contemplates published material about the individual seeking first-preference classification, not 
information that an individual seeking first-preference classification published. Although the 
published material must relate to the work of the individual seeking first-preference classification, and 
the work must be in the field for which classification is sought, the criterion nevertheless contemplates 
"material about the [ noncitizen ]," not merely material published by the individual about the 
individual's work. Because the Petitioner did not submit material about him, relating to his work in 
5 
the field for which classification is sought, published in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation that discuss the 
Petitioner's skills and personal characteristics; however, the Director observed that the letters of 
recommendation are conclusory in nature and they are not corroborated by independent, documentary 
evidence. The Director also noted that the Petitioner submitted "a screenshot from an unidentified 
source 
However, the Director explained that, 
because the screenshot from an unidentified source excludes both the Petitioner's name and its source, 
it is not evidence ofhis original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions 
of major significance in the field. Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As previously discussed, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director "did not consider or review 
the submitted evidence." In the RFE response brief, the Petitioner summarized articles he asserted he 
authored in publications he described as "key publications related to published trade work in 
[ e ]ngineering and management industries." The Petitioner also contends that his published articles 
have "major significance in the field." 
Aside from the Petitioner's own statements, the record does not establish, through objective, probative 
evidence, how the articles he authored have "major significance in the field," whether the field of 
engineering, management, or another field. For example, as noted, the Director explained that the 
letters ofrecommendation do not provide objective, probative evidence of how the Petitioner's articles 
have "major significance to the field," as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Because the record does not establish how the Petitioner's articles-to the extent that the record 
establishes he authored articles-or any of his other original contributions have "major significance 
to the field" of engineering, management, or any other field, it does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the [noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In addressing this criteria, the Director pointed to submitted copies of bank statements and pay stubs 
dated 2022 and 2023 in the record, and the Petitioner's assertion that this evidence reflected high 
salaries. However, the Director observed that "the [P]etitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
establish that he commands a 'high salary' compared to other engineers, nor was enough information 
provided about the top engineers in his field," citing Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994). Because the record does not sufficiently establish, through independent, probative 
evidence, how the Petitioner's salary compares to others in the field, the Director concluded that it 
does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
6 
Again, on appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director "did not consider or review the submitted 
evidence." In the RFE response brief, the Petitioner summarized his income during certain months of 
2022 and 2023, and he asserted that his income "has consistently fallen within the high salary range." 
However, as the Director explained, the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) contemplates salaries 
or other remuneration for services "in relation to others in the field." Neither the copies of bank 
statements and pay stubs dated 2022 and 2023 nor the remainder of the record establish the salary 
range of others in the fields of engineering and management, or more specifically among engineering 
project managers with roles similar to the Petitioner. Because the record does not establish the salary 
range of others in the field, it does not establish whether the Petitioner's salary or other remuneration 
for services was high in relation to others in the field, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
We need not determine whether the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and(viii) 
because, even if it did, the record would not satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(vi). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results 
they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established he received a one-time achievement or, in the alternative, evidence 
that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 10, 2024 In Re: 30992586 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, determining the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidentiary 
criteria, ofwhich he must meet at least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." Regarding revocation on 
notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter ofEstime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence ofrecord 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden ofproof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval ofa visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner did not initially indicate or establish that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, but sought to satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Ultimately, the Director approved the petition in February 2017. On 
July 6, 2021, the Director issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR), which the Petitioner responded 
2 
on a timely basis. In the NOIR, the Director noted concerns with the documentation submitted with 
the initial petition and how it did not satisfy the initial evidentiary requirements to demonstrate the 
Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in accordance with 
203(b)(l)(A)(l) of the INA. 
In response, the Petitioner maintained that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to receipt of awards (i); memberships (ii), published materials (iii), 
original contributions of major significance (v), scholarly articles (vi), evidence that the individual has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation (viii), and, high salary (ix). The Director did not find the Petitioner's response to the NOIR 
persuasive and revoked the approval of the petition in October 2023. 
A NOIR "must include a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, but 
also of the supporting evidence." Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452. USCIS must also provide a 
petitioner with a written decision "that explains the specific reasons for the revocation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205 .2( c ). A conclusory statement supports neither a NOIR' s issuance nor revocation of a petition's 
approval. Matter ofArias, 19 I&N Dec. 568, 570 (BIA 1988). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not fulfill at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. In the 
revocation, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of documentation and did 
not explain why the evidence did not overcome the grounds in the NOIR. In addition, the Director 
did not address the Petitioner's arguments made in response to the NOIR. Here, the Director did not 
provide the Petitioner sufficient information that specifically explained the proposed grounds for 
revocation. 
As the record does not sufficiently explain the Director's finding regarding the Petitioner's claimed 
extraordinary ability, we will remand the matter. On remand, the Director should reconsider the 
Petitioner's qualifications for the requested immigrant visa category. If the Director believes that the 
Petitioner has not established his claimed extraordinary ability, the Director should issue a new NOIR 
explaining the evidentiary deficiency and allowing the Petitioner an opportunity to respond. If 
supported by the record, a new NOIR may include any additional potential revocation grounds. The 
Director, however, must afford the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to respond to all issues raised 
on remand. Upon receipt of a timely response, the Director should review the entire record and issue 
a new decision. 
Furthermore, the Director noted in the decision that the Petitioner failed to provide a properly certified 
translation of the documents submitted in support of the evidentiary criteria and therefore, service of 
the documentation submitted in response to the NOIR was not probative. The Director noted that the 
single-page affidavit of translation of foreign documents did not meet the standard set out in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3) because a single translation certification that does not specifically identify the 
document[ s] it accompanies does not meet the requirements of the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends he submitted the required translation as outlined in 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b). The Petitioner explains that the affidavit submitted in response to the NOIR contained the 
language, "All Chinese documents listed in the I I NOIR response (I-140) for 
beneficiary [the Petitioner] are true and accurate renditions into English from the Chinese originals," 
3 
and therefore covered all translated documents. On appeal, the Petitioner submits an updated affidavit 
by the same translator attesting the truth and accuracy of the translation of all evidence submitted in 
response to the NOIR and provided a list of all documents translated by the translator. A remand is 
further warranted in this case because the Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal which is material 
to the claim that he submitted the required translations as outlined in 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The final revocation notice did not address the rebuttal claims and evidence the Petitioner provided. 
Further, Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of 
the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and explanation why the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate he satisfied these initial evidence requirements. Moreover, the Petitioner provided 
evidence on appeal on whether the documentation was properly translated for the Director's review. 
We will therefore remand the matter to the Director to issue a new NOIR, covering these issues and 
considering the additional arguments on appeal. Any future NOIR must include "a specific statement 
not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, but also of the supporting evidence." Estime, 19 
I&N Dec. at 451. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 10, 2024 In Re: 31569911 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a judoka, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that he seeks to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a judoka, intends to continue his activities as a judo competitor in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed to meet the plain language 
requirements of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to lesser awards (i), 
memberships (ii), and published materials (iii), the Director determined that he satisfied none of them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for these three criteria and asserts that the Director's 
decision was erroneous. 
Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the [ noncitizen 's] receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was "excellence in the 
field" include but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors . See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2(8)( 1 ), 
https ://www. uscis. gov /po licymanual. 
2 
I At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted numerous documents as well as photographs of medals 
and trophies. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that his initial 
evidence did not establish that he was the recipient of a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence in his field and therefore did not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
Specifically, the Director noted that many of the documents and photographs submitted were not 
accompanied by a certified English translation as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3), and further noted 
that some of the awards appeared to be earned at youth competitions. The Director provided a list of 
the types of evidence he could provide to establish eligibility and advised him of the need for 
translations of any foreign language documentation submitted. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted photographs of trophies and medals, with accompanying 
documentation from the Georgian Judo Federation andl Judo Club identifying the competition 
and where the Petitioner placed in each competition. The Petitioner also submitted results statements 
from competitions as well of photographs of the Petitioner holding various awards. In denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the submitted evidence did not satisfy the plain language of the 
criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not properly consider the documentary 
evidence and photographs submitted in response to the RFE and asserts he has met his burden. 
While the record demonstrates that the Petitioner won several awards in the field ofjudo, the record 
does not sufficiently demonstrate national or international recognition for excellence in judo for the 
awards. Besides listing the placements, the record does not provide details of the awards. Without 
supporting documentary evidence to provide information regarding the actual competitions 
themselves, such as the sponsoring organizations of the events, the official entry requirements from 
the sponsoring organizations, the level of those who participated, or the degree of attention the events 
attract within the field, we cannot conclude that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in judo. The documentation accompanying the photographs of the awards does 
not explain how these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. The burden is on the Petitioner to demonstrate the level ofrecognition and achievement 
associated with the awards. 
Moreover, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted documents relating to competitions he 
participated in after the petition's filing date, such as 2022 I IJudo Invitational and the 
IJudo Championships in I I 2021. The documents may be considered to help 
establish the Petitioner's intention to continue working in the field ofjudo; however, they may not be 
considered to establish awards received by the Petitioner. The Petitioner must establish eligibility for 
the criterion as of the petition's filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
After considering the record, the Petitioner has not met the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of 
these awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won, or 
that they are recognized for excellence in the field of judo, as required. The Petitioner has not 
submitted documentation sufficient to establish eligibility for this criterion. 
3 
Documentation ofthe [non citizen's] membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines ifthe association for which the person 
claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by 
recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. Id. 
Here, the Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the Georgian 
Judo Federation. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted several statements from the 
Georgian Judo Federation pertaining to his membership and his competition history. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient 
evidence establishing that the association requires outstanding achievements ofits members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Director also noted 
that despite the submission of the Petitioner's USAJUDO membership card, no additional 
documentation regarding the membership requirements for that organization had been submitted. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first asserts that the Petitioner's membership in USAJUDO was not intended 
to establish that he met the plain language of this criterion, but rather to demonstrate his bona fide 
intent to continue competing in the sport. The Petitioner emphasizes that his eligibility under this 
criterion is based on his membership in the Georgian Judo Federation and asserts that the Director did 
not afford sufficient evidentiary weight to the submitted documentation. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination. The Petitioner submits multiple statements 
from the Georgian Judo Federation dated between July 2021 through November 2022. These 
statements address various issues, such as confirming the Petitioner's black belt status, affording the 
Petitioner permission to compete in USAJUDO sanctioned events, addressing the impact of the 
COVID-19 outbreak on judo competitions, and documenting an injury the Petitioner sustained that 
prohibited him from competing in 2021. Only one of these documents addresses the Petitioner's 
membership in the association. 
Specifically, a statement from the organization's president, dated November 15, 2022, states that the 
Petitioner is a member ofthe Georgian Judo Federation. It does not state the date he became a member, 
nor does the record include a copy of his membership card or certificate such that we can determine 
whether he was a member of this association when he filed the petition. As previously noted, the 
Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(1 ). Because this 
statement was drafted after the petition's filing and does not verify the date the Petitioner's 
membership with this association commenced, we are unable to determine whether the Petitioner was 
a member of this association at the time of filing, as required. 
The statement further indicates: "Ifa sportsman meets all the criteria and can decently represent his 
country, he undoubtedly deserves to be a member of the national team." The statement, however, does 
4 
not provide insight on what type of criteria are required to be met, nor does it clarify if these criteria 
are for membership in the Georgian Judo Federation or the national team. 
The statement further provides: 
If not [the Petitioner's] successful career from a very young age and excellently won 
national and international competitions, he would not have been a member of the 
Georgian judo team because our judo coaches thoroughly check and observe every 
athlete's performance in every context. After becoming a member of the National Judo 
Team, [the Petitioner] showed his talent and become at the top ofthe judo and exceeded 
his abilities by being number one at his weight categories. [The Petitioner] has 
represented Georgia (country) countless and he is truly a worthy and strong opponent 
for all judokas. 
This statement does not demonstrate that the requirements for membership in the Georgian Judo 
Federation are comparable to the regulatory requirement of outstanding achievements, nor does it 
demonstrate that admittance to this association is determined by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. The Petitioner did not submit evidence, such as the bylaws or other official 
documentation of the association's membership criteria, such that we can evaluate whether the 
Petitioner's membership is qualifying. The Petitioner also did not provide evidence that admittance is 
determined by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
Moreover, the statement is somewhat confusing, as it appears to focus more on the Petitioner's 
membership on the Georgian national judo team rather than his membership in the Georgian Judo 
Federation as references throughout the statement repeatedly refer to the team, not the association. The 
Petitioner has not documented his membership on the national team, nor does he provide supporting 
evidence showing that membership on this team required outstanding achievements. Although an 
athlete's membership on a major national team may serve to meet this criterion as such teams are limited 
in the number of members and have a rigorous selection process, it is the Petitioner's burden to 
demonstrate that he meets every element of a given criterion, including that he is a member of a team that 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. We will not presume that every national "team" is sufficiently exclusive. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his membership in associations requiring outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
In denying the petition, the Director noted that the Petitioner's initial submission consisting of various 
content from Wikipedia, social media screenshots, photos without attribution, and internet excerpts 
without ULRs were insufficient to meet this criterion. The Director further noted that the Petitioner's 
submission of numerous news articles were not acceptable because they were not accompanied by full 
English translations that complied with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the insufficiency of the Internet materials and photos 
submitted but asserts that the Director erroneously discounted the news articles which were submitted 
both initially and again in response to the RFE. The Petitioner states that contrary to the Director's 
observations, the articles were in fact accompanied by certified English translations, and the Director 
erred by discounting them on that basis. 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's determination. Preliminarily, although the Petitioner no 
longer relies on the Wikipedia content, social media screenshots, photos, and Internet excerpts, we 
nevertheless note that they are is insufficient to satisfy this criterion because many of the documents 
omit the title, date, and author ofthe material, and no evidence was submitted to demonstrate that such 
information was published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Next, any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Although the submitted articles are accompanied by English translations, they 
do not contain a certification from the translator that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
Rather, each translation contains a signature and an illegible seal in a foreign language at the bottom 
ofeach page. Despite being informed ofthis evidentiary deficiency in the RFE, the Petitioner declined 
to provide the requested translations that complied with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3) 
and now maintains on appeal that the translations are acceptable. 
The translator, however, must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, 
and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because 
the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation ofeach article, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's 
claims. 
Nevertheless, even if we were to consider these materials, the submitted evidence is insufficient to 
meet the criterion. The submissions appear to be from Lelo, a Georgian newspaper. The Petitioner 
submitted no evidence to demonstrate that this publication qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media as required by the plain language of this criterion. Moreover, while 
it appears that the articles discuss competition results of the Petitioner, numerous articles submitted 
do not identify an author. Therefore, even ifwe were to accept this material, it falls short of the plain 
language requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not shown that he meets this criterion. 
6 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the three evidentiary criteria discussed above. As 
such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline 
to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's arguments regarding whether he seeks to enter the United 
States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability. Therefore, we reserve and will not address 
this remaining issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); 
see also MatterofD-L-S, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 10, 2024 In Re: 31860554 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a salsa dancer, choreographer and instructor, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that she satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
B The Petitioner states that she is a world renown dancer, choreographer and instructor of Salsa Calena, 
a style of salsa dancing considered an important part of the cultural heritage of Colombia. In a 
personal statement , the Petitioner states that she began salsa dancing at age 5, taught by her father. In 
2000, the Petitioner , along with her father and sister, founded I I a dance school in 
olombia. Under the Petitioner 's leadership as choreographer and artistic director,! I 
has performed throughout the world, in national and international competitions and dance 
exhibitions. In addition, the Petitioner has choreographed and performed with other dance companies 
world-wide . She seeks to expand her dance studio in the United States and continue her work as a 
choreographer and dance instructor in salsa dancing. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) (i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that she met seven of these criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationall y recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contribution s of major significance ; 
• (vii), Display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishm ents with a 
distinguished reputation. 
2 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record demonstrated that she met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), having displayed her 
work at artistic exhibitions. However, the Director informed the Petitioner that the evidence was not 
sufficient to establish that she met any of the other claimed criteria. The Director allowed the 
Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence in attempt to demonstrate that she satisfied at 
least two more of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence asserting that she meets the 
following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; and 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that she met two of 
the ten criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), having participated as a judge ofthe work of others in the field, and having 
displayed her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. While we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has met these two criteria, we conclude that the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets at least one additional criterion to meet the threshold for a final merits determination 
on whether she can establish that she is an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of salsa 
dancing, choreography and instruction. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, she maintains that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii), for lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, memberships 
in associations that require outstanding achievements, and published materials in major trade or 
professional publications or other major media. For the reasons discussed below, we find that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three categories of evidence. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on awards given to ______ in the 
field of dance. The record includes certificates, award announcements and photographs of trophies 
from various competitions, including the Festival the World and 
the World I I The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the awards 
demonstrated national or international recognition for excellence. 
The record does not include information about the Festival I I or the World 
describing the significance of the awards, the number of awardees or any limitations on 
competitors. Although the Petitioner describes these events as "one of the largest salsa events in the 
3 
world," and "one of the most important in the world," the record does not include evidence to support 
these claims. The Petitioner must support assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. 
See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. While we acknowledge that the record includes 
information about the World including the scoring system and rules of competition, 
this evidence does not describe the awarding entity or the significance of the award. We therefore 
agree with the Director that the evidence does not establish that these awards qualify as lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
Even if we were to consider these awards as international awards for excellence, which we do not, the 
evidence demonstrates that these awards were given to the team, and do not list 
the individual members of the team. The record does not demonstrate that the awards have been 
granted to the Petitioner in recognition for her achievements as a salsa dancer, choreographer and 
instructor. Although the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner was a member of the team, the 
awards demonstrate recognition of the team as a whole, rather than an award for individual 
achievement by any specific member. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she has provided evidence of international awards in her field and 
submits copies of evidence already in the record. She also submits a letter from the "productor 
general" of the World _____ The letter states that under the artistic 
and choreographic direction of [the Petitioner] was consecrated as champion ofthe Worldl 
2012 dance tournament in the category I I While the letter identifies the Petitioner 
as member of the award-winning team, as noted above, the Petitioner has not established that the 
W orldl Iqualifies as an internationally recognized award. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet the standards of this criterion, an individual must submit evidence that 1) they are a member 
of an association; 2) the association is in their field of extraordinary ability; 3) the association requires 
outstanding achievements as a condition for membership; and 4) that the outstanding achievements 
are judged by national or international experts in their fields. 
In support of this criterion the Petitioner asserts that she is a member of the I 
AssociationI and the Association. The Director determined that the 
evidence did not demonstrate that these associations require outstanding achievements and was not 
sufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
1 We acknowledge that the record includes an award from the National Congress titled I I2019" and awarded 
to the "director of ______ However, the name listed on the award does not match name of the Petitioner, 
and nothing in the record identifies the award recipient as the same individual as the Petitioner. Further, the record does 
not include information about the awarding entity or the competition. Nor does it describe the significance of the award, 
the number of awardees or any limitations on competitors. See 6 USC/S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
4 I 
On appeal, the Petitioner again states that she is a member of an organization focused 
on "preserving, safeguarding, and recognizing the cultural significance embodied by the Social 
Dancer." She submits a letter from the legal representative of I I identifying the 
Petitioner as a member and describing the criteria for membership as follows: 
l. The new member must be an arts foundation or non-profit organization. 
2. The new member must have a board of directors made up of a minimum committee 
of 10 people. 
3. The new member must have legal statutes certified by an attorney. 
4. The new member must be registered with the chamber of commerce as an arts 
foundation or non-profit organization. 
5. The new member must delegate a representative who will attend the different 
meetings or activities required by the board of directors of ____ 
This evidence does not describe the requirements for membership as outstanding achievements in the 
field. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that achievements of members are judged by national or 
international experts in salsa dancing, choreography or instruction. 
With the initial filing the Petitioner stated that I I Association is an association of 
dancers inDcreated to "manage the quality of life of salsa dancers." However, the record does not 
include any information about this organization to support the Petitioner's statement. The Petitioner 
did not discuss her membership inl IAssociation in response to the RFE or on appeal. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion requires evidence showing published material about the individual and their work in the 
field of extraordinary ability. In addition, that material must include basic information such as its title, 
date and author, and must have been published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
The record includes several articles on the topic of salsa dancing, some mentioning the Petitioner's 
dance studio, ______ and some featuring the Petitioner. With the initial filing, the 
Petitioner also provided a list of the top 10 national and regional newspapers in Colombia. In 
the RFE, the Director noted that articles listing the results from a competition did not meet the 
requirements for this criterion. The Director further noted that the material in the record did not clearly 
identify the name of the publication for each article and did not include information about the 
publication to establish that is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. She 
also noted that some articles did not appear to include a complete English translation. 
5 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner did not provide additional evidence but disagreed with the 
Director. She stated, "Each of them includes the name of the media (magazine, website, etc.), date, 
and author of the published material. Additionally, they were accompanied by the proper English 
translation related to my work. As for the remaining content unrelated to me, I did not see the need to 
translate it." 
The Director determined that this criterion was not met because the publications are local or regional 
in nature. The Director again noted that some of the published material in the record did not include 
the title, date, and author. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again disagrees and states, "I hold a differing opinion as all the evidence I 
submitted adheres to the stipulations of this criterion." The Petitioner again references the list of top 
lOnational and regional newspapers inc=] Colombia and submits copies of evidence already in the 
record. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that many of the articles do not identify the 
name of the publication. Some evidence includes only a sentence or paragraph presumably clipped 
from a full article. Some evidence includes only photos with captions without referencing the article 
or identifying the publication. 
Of the articles that do identify the publication, these do not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
One article, published in the newspaper El Pais inl I2008, discusses the Petitioner and her sister 
and their salsa dancing achievements. However, the record does not include evidence to establish the 
circulation statistics for El Pais, or evidence of the intended audience for this publication to establish 
that it qualifies as major media or a major trade publication. An article, published I 2016 in 
the magazine "15 Minutos," features the Petitioner but does not discuss her achievements as a salsa 
dancer, choreographer or instructor. Rather, the article tells the story of how the Petitioner met her 
spouse. The record also includes articles about salsa dancing published in the newspaper "Zona Rosa," 
but these articles do not mention the Petitioner specifically and no information is included about the 
publication to identify it as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Other 
articles in the record announce competition winners, and, as the Director noted, do not satisfy the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 For example, a petitioner 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. 
6 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
With the initial filing, in support of this criterion the Petitioner stated that her original contributions of 
major significance included her dance studio, ______ as well as bringing "the name of 
Colombia to the top in the different international Salsa championships." She submitted business 
certificates demonstrating that she is on the board ofdirectors of ______ as well as letters 
and certificates identifying ______ as an award-winning dance school and recognizing 
the Petitioner as director, choreographer and dancer. 
The Director determined that the evidence in the record did not demonstrate the major significance of 
the Petitioner's original contributions. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner did not address this 
criterion or submit additional evidence. The purpose of the RFE is to elicit further information that 
clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been established. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(8). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits her personal statement describing her dedication to her profession 
and the reputation of her dance school. She states that, in support of this criterion, she submits a letter 
from her father as general director of and a "letter from the Mayor's Office of 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is the artistic director and choreographer, as well as an 
instructor at the dance studio, which she founded with her family. While the 
record includes articles and recommendation letters mentioning the Petitioner and her role with 
the record does not describe the Petitioner's original contribution through this 
organization. The letter from the general director of ______ the Petitioner's father, 
verifies her role as "creator, founder, dancer, choreographer, instructor, and artistic director" with the 
school. Although the letter states that the Petitioner's work "has been vital for the evolution, 
development and growth of our dance school," the letter does not detail the nature or significance of 
her contributions to the field of salsa dancing, choreography and instruction as a whole. Similarly, the 
resolution from the mayor's office "exalting the dance school" and recognizing the Petitioner and her 
family does not identify a contribution ofmajor significance to the field ofsalsa dancing, choreography 
and instruction. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
7 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam- Webster's online dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person.'" Id. 
The Petitioner points to her roles in judging various salsa dancing festivals and competitions. The 
Director acknowledged that this demonstrated the Petitioner's satisfaction of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the field. However, the Director 
determined that this criterion, leading or critical role, was not met because the evidence did not show 
that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, that her contributions were of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organizations, or that the organizations have a distinguished 
reputation. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner did not address this criterion or submit additional evidence. As 
noted above, the purpose of the RFE is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility 
for the benefit sought has been established. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(8). The Petitioner also does not address 
or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that she does not meet this criterion. Accordingly, we 
deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 
28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that she satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
B. Summary 
For the 
reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because she 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that she 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully 
address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a 
finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her accomplishments in salsa dancing, choreography, or 
instruction is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
3 This review included consideration of testimonial evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatory 
criterion, such as letters of recommendation and letters of invitation to perfmm at dance and talent competitions. 
8 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated 
reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20603827 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 11, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer systems analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and reconsider that decision, and affirmed the 
denial of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for various employers since 2005, as a network administrator working with 
a platform called SAP Basis. The Petitioner has worked in the United States since 2011, sometimes 
as an L-1 nonimmigrant intracompany transferee, sometimes as an H-1 B nonimmigrant worker in a 
specialty occupation. He has worked for various staffing services that provide technical services to 
client companies, includin!'J in California, and in 
Texas. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
Beyond the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Petitioner asserted that his experience and 
the complexity of his work are "comparable evidence of his extraordinary ability in the field." The 
regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )( 4) permits the submission of comparable evidence when the standard 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. The Petitioner 
did not claim or establish that those criteria do not readily apply to his occupation; as noted above, he 
claimed to satisfy seven of them. 
In a denial notice dated May 2021, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria, 
relating to authorship of scholarly articles and high remuneration. The Petitioner filed a timely motion 
to reopen and reconsider that decision, asserting that he had also established that he satisfied a third 
criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii), by performing in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. Specifically, the Petitioner asserted that the 
role of an SAP Basis administrator is inherently critical, and that he performed in that role for several 
distinguished clients. 
2 
In September 2021, the Director granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and affirmed the denial of 
the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not overcome the grounds for denial of the petition. On 
appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and two letters, one from an employer and the other from a 
university professor. 
In his statements on motion and, later, on appeal, the Petitioner addresses one of the regulatory criteria, 
pertaining to leading or critical roles. One of the letters submitted on appeal briefly addresses three 
other criteria, pertaining to prizes, participation as a judge, and original contributions. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's conclusions regarding authorship and 
remuneration. Below, we will address the criterion that the Petitioner actively discusses on appeal. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is, or was, a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. For a critical role, we 
look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www. 
uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In his initial filing, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a leading and critical role as a Basis Lead for 
some of the world's most distinguished organizations since October 2005 ." The Petitioner listed and 
described his past projects for clients including PepsiCo, Hitachi USA, and Coca-Cola. The Petitioner 
does not claim to have been directly employed by any of those companies; rather, the companies were 
clients of his various employers. The Petitioner's work involves enterprise systems, which the Petitioner 
described as "large-scale application software packages that support business processes, information 
flows, reporting, and data analytics in complex organizations." 
An information technology (IT) manager at SAFRAN Electronics & Defense Avionics USA, LLC, stated 
that the Petitioner's role is critical because "SAP Basis is the glue that holds IT together," and "[n]o one 
knows systems better than SAP Basis administrators." Beyond these general statements about the 
importance of SAP Basis administrators, the IT manager provides technical details about the Petitioner's 
work on a five-month project for the company. For instance, he states that the Petitioner "performed 
System sizing, hardware specification for SAP ECC, SAP PI/PO and GRC systems." The official does 
not explain how these actions were critical to the company or a division or department thereof. 
The Petitioner's work for SAFRAN appears to amount to supporting tasks performed by a contractor, 
rather than the work integral to SAFRAN's own operations as an aerospace and defense company. The 
Petitioner was not doing the work of the company; rather, he helped to provide the tools for that work, 
for example working on projects in which clients migrated from one platform to another. The Petitioner's 
materials describe work for another client as a "printer replacement project." 
Another letter submitted with the petition reinforces this conclusion. An IT official at a local office of 
Change HealthCare, Inc., stated that the Petitioner "handled the SAP data center migrations" and "is 
3 
proficient in performance tuning of SAP applications." The record indicates that the Petitioner helped to 
facilitate the work of his employers' various clients, but he did not participate in the client companies' 
activities, and therefore he was not critical to those activities. 
In the May 2021 denial notice, the Director concluded that, while many companies rely on enterprise 
systems, it does not follow that ES administrators perform critical roles for those companies. 
On motion, the Petitioner provided further technical details and stated: "the Basis Administrator is 
perhaps the most important role within any organization running SAP .... An SAP Basis Administrator 
keeps the SAP environment running properly for a business. Therefore, for companies relying on SAP, 
the SAP Basis Administrator is an important position." The statement ends with a list of four online 
references, providing information about SAP Basis administrators. Because this general information 
applies to all SAP Basis administrators, the Petitioner essentially claims that any given SAP Basis 
administrator is, by definition, performing in a critical role.1 
The Director granted the motion, but affirmed the denial of the petition, stating: "All employees provide 
necessary or fundamental services for a company, but to hold that all roles are critical because there is a 
need for a service would make this criterion meaningless." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider evidence of the Petitioner's critical 
roles, but the Petitioner does not address the reasoning underlying the Director's conclusions. He 
maintains that he has performed in a critical role for clients such as PepsiCo, Hitachi USA, and Coca­
Cola, but he has not submitted first-hand evidence from those companies to establish that they consider 
his work to have been critical. Rather, he relies on the assertion that the role of any given SAP Basis 
administrator is inherently critical. The letters he has submitted from other employers and clients either 
rely on general assertions about SAP Basis administrators or else focus on specific details of the 
Petitioner's tasks and projects, without establishing that those tasks were of significant importance to the 
outcome of the activities of the organizations or divisions or departments thereof. 
The Petitioner submits two fmiher letters on appeal. One is attributed to the manager of RedRiver 
Systems, although parts of this letter are worded identically to passages on the websites identified in the 
Petitioner's motion. Other parts of the letter identify some of the Petitioner's projects and indicate that 
he "made significant contribution[s] to companies." The letter does not identify these companies. 
1 Visits to the identified websites show that the Petitioner appears to have copied and pasted language from those sites. For 
example, the cited website h tips:/ /www.gemini-us.com/blog/sap-basis-role-importance-in-an-enterprise includes the following 
passage: 
In simple words, SAP Basis administmtionis a critical pa1iofyour SAP landscape, which manages essential 
functions like the maintenance and monitoring uptime, evaluating upgrades, planning, user and system 
administration along with several other tasks. Without it, an enterprise would find it difficult to manage its 
SAP systems. 
The Petitioner's statement on motion includes this same passage, with the word "your" removed, leaving the phrase "... a 
critical part of SAP landscape." 
4 
The other letter, dated April 2020, is from a university professor, who asserts: "After having reviewed 
[the Petitioner's] professional experience and outstanding achievements within his field, I genuinely 
believe that he is a leading Software Specialist." The Petitioner had previously submitted this letter in 
support of an earlier petition he had filed on his own behalf. In a May 2020 denial notice, the Director 
explained why the letter was not persuasive evidence of eligibility. The Director noted, for example, that 
there was no indication that the professor was aware of the Petitioner's work before being asked to w1ite 
the letter; his comments were based on materials provided by the Petitioner. The Director also stated that 
individuals who did not work with the Petitioner are not in a position to provide details about the nature 
of the Petitioner's role with his employers and clients. Rather than contest that May 2020 denial with an 
appeal or motion, the Petitioner filed the present petition -his third -in September 2020. 
The Petitioner states that his satisfaction of two regulatory criteria, relating to articles and remuneration, 
"shows that he must perfmm in a leading or critical role for organizations having [a] distinguished 
reputation." The ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) are independent of one another; satisfying some of 
the criteria does not imply or create the presumption that an individual has satisfied other criteria as well 
The petitioner has submitted some information indicating that an SAP Basis administrator's role is critical 
within the limited context of SAP systems management, but the Petitioner has not shown that this work 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the activities of a given organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner's appellate brief does not address any of the other eligibility criteria that the Petitioner had 
previously claimed at the time he filed the petition. Because the university professor's April 2020 letter, 
submitted on appeal, addresses someofthose other criteria, we brieflynote the Petitioner's original claims 
below, as they relate to the submitted letter. Any earlier claims not addressed in that letter, and thus not 
raised on appeal, are considered to be abandoned. 2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or intemationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In 2013, the Petitioner's then-employed I presented the Petitioner with a certificate "in 
recognition of outstanding commitment, [d]edication, and exemplary performance for [c]ontribution 
towards growth of the organization." The writer of the April2020 letter, whodoesnotclaimto have been 
an official or employee of I quotes the language from the certificate without further comment. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, does not contest or rebut the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
shown that the certificate is recognized nationally or internationally as a prize or award for excellence in 
the field of endeavor, and the record does not elaborate on the circumstances under which he received the 
certificate. It is evident that the certificate is available only tol I employees. An award limited 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
5 
to individuals at a single institution may have little national or international significance. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The writer of the April 2020 letter states that the Petitioner: 
participated in ________ SAP audit subsequent volume of technical and 
non-technical projects. He was frequ_ently involved in judging the work of others and 
holds authoritative responsibility in his field of work. He judged, reviewed, and approved 
[several listed] technical materials .... 
He has also been part of the project technical assessment panel in the United States and 
contributed tremendously to SAP BASIS andNetWeaver competency. 
The writer claims no personal knowledge of the Petitioner's judging activity, and he does not identify any 
source for the information he claims in his letter. In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had documented his job responsibilities, but had not shown that those responsibilities involved 
judging the work of others. The April 2020 letter submitted on appeal predates, and therefore does not 
address or respond to, the Director's May 2021 denial notice. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholar01, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
With respect to this criterion, the April 2020 letter incorporates quotations from earlier letters, provided 
by other individuals. The Director addressed those letters in the May 2020 notice denying the earlier 
petition, concluding that the letters described the tasks the Petitioner carried out in the routine performance 
of his job duties, but did not establish the major significance of those tasks. The repetition of information 
from those letters does not rebut the Director's conclusions. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
6 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has had a 
long and successful career, including projects for high-profile clients, but the record does not establish 
that this success has risen to the level of sustained acclaim, through which the Petitioner is recognized 
not only by his employers and clients, but throughout his field at a national or international level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 11, 2024 In Re: 31843875 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a furniture designer who seeks classification under the employment-based, first 
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts based on his skills and 
experience as a furniture designer. The Petitioner provided evidence that he currently owns and 
operates his own business where he sells the furniture he designs. 
The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence to show that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore provide evidence showing that he satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Petitioner claim that he has satisfied 
the elements of the three criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), evidence of published 
material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major media; and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), evidence that the Petitioner's work has been displayed at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director determined that although the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and (vii), he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because he did not submit 
evidence establishing that the articles about him and his work were published in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 
In determining whether a petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we first 
consider whether published materials relate to the petitioner and their specific work in their field. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
If the record shows that the Petitioner met these requirements, we will then decide whether the 
submitted articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
2 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a list describing the articles 
he was submitting as part of the response. For each listed article the Petitioner provided the title, 
author, date, and publication. 1 Although the Petitioner also listed the intended audience and 
circulation for each publication, he did not cite the source of circulation data to support its reliability, 
nor did he provide rankings for the publications to demonstrate that they constitute major media. 
Further, although the Petitioner included six online articles among his list of publications, he did not 
specifically articulate why the online articles should be considered professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, nor did he submit visitation data for these sites or comparisons to 
other websites to establish that they can be considered professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. See id. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the articles he submitted "most definitely appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media." The Petitioner also resubmits the 
previously submitted evidence regarding this criterion and states that the publications included 
"national and international newspapers and major designs magazines ... with large volume of 
circulation in Thailand and other countries." However, the Petitioner still has not offered objective 
supporting evidence to substantiate the circulation data he provided or to establish how that circulation 
data compares to that of other publications to establish that these sources could in fact be considered 
major media. Nor has the Petitioner supplemented the record with the publications' respective 
rankings to demonstrate that they constitute major trade publications or other major media. Likewise, 
the Petitioner has not submitted visitation data for the websites containing his listed online articles or 
comparisons to other websites to establish that they can be considered professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the evidence he provided satisfies the 
evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Lastly, because the Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of at least three of the IO initial 
evidentiary requirements for the requested immigrant visa category, we need not make a final merits 
determination as to his eligibility as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability in his field and hereby 
reserve his appellate arguments in that regard. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 ( 1976) (stating 
that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate 
decisions); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternate issues on appeal where an applicant does not otherwise qualify for relief). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner provided foreign articles with their respective translations. However, the translations do not appear to be 
fully compliant with the regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b )(3 ), which requires the translator ofthe foreign material to certify 
that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the 
foreign language into English. Here, the translations contain a notation with the translator's name and initials stated that 
the translation is "certified correct." There is no confirmation from the translator as to the completeness of the translation 
or the translator's competency to translate from the foreign language into English as required by the regulation. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 11, 2024 In Re: 31847546 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is paintless dent repair specialist in the automotive industry. He seeks first preference 
immigrant classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
also allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability based on his skills and experience as 
an automotive technician specializing in paintless dent repair (PDR). The Petitioner provided 
evidence that he currently owns and operates his own business where he provides PDR services to his 
clientele in the State of Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence to show that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award. He must therefore provide evidence showing that he satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he 
satisfied the elements of the six criteria that are summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; and 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary or remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
published material about the Petitioner, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participation as a judge of the 
2 
work of others, but that he did not satisfy any of the four remaining criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that he meets all six of the originally listed criteria. 
Accordingly, our discussion below will address the remaining four claimed criteria, starting with the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in professional associations. To 
meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member in an association in his field, and that 
the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, which is judged by national or 
international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence showing that he is a member of the National Alliance of 
PDR Technicians (NAPDRT). The Director deemed such membership to be insufficient to meet this 
criterion because the organization's membership guidelines did not establish that outstanding 
achievements or skills were required as prerequisites for membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner resubmits evidence pertaining to his membership in the NAPDRT and 
continues to rely on such membership as a basis for meeting this criterion. The Petitioner arguesthat 
NAPDRT lists him as a "Qualified PDR Technician" and the only one in I These 
assertions, however, do not address the deficiency pointed out in the Director's decision regarding the 
lack of evidence showing that outstanding achievements or skills are required to become a NAPDRT 
member. Further, the Petitioner's reference to an unpublished AAO decision concerning a coach in 
equestrian show jumping is not instructive in this matter, as the decision is unpublished and concerns 
an individual whose claimed area of expertise is entirely distinct from that of the Petitioner in this 
matter. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) (stating that only published precedent decisions are binding on 
USCIS). 
The Petitioner also asserts that he is a member of the ARC Inter Association and offers a printout from 
January 2024 as evidence of his ARC certification. However, the Petitioner does not offer evidence 
showing when he became an ARC member, nor does he demonstrate that he was a member in March 
2022 when this petition was filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971) (providing that "Congress did not intend that a petition that was properly 
denied because the beneficiary was not at that time qualified be subsequently approved at a future date 
when the beneficiary may become qualified under a new set of facts."). Given the cited deficiencies, 
the Petitioner has not established that he satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Next, we will address the Petitioner's claim that he satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
which requires evidence of the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance in his field. 
In the denial, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of recommendation letters and 
advisory opinions, listing the names of seven individuals who submitted written testimonials on the 
Petitioner's behalf However, the Director determined that while the letters discuss the Petitioner's 
knowledge of PDR work and compliment him on his skills and expertise, they did not specify any 
significant contributions the Petitioner made to the PDR landscape. The Director also noted that 
beyond the letters of recommendation the Petitioner did not provide objective evidence, such as 
published material, patents, or copyright material, to support the claim that he made original 
contributions in his field. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner broadly references, without specifying, an "original development" that he 
claims was of major significance and "had specific effects on the field." He also claims that the 
"original development" was the subject of "widespread commentary" and is "considered important by 
peers." The Petitioner lists previously submitted opinion and recommendation letters as proof that he 
satisfied this criterion. 
However, none of the Petitioner's submitted testimonials or expert opinion letters specifically identify 
his claimed contribution, nor does the Petitioner document the claimed contribution's impact on the 
automotive field of PDR. Rather, the submissions mostly include personal experiences with the 
Petitioner, highlighting his skills as a PDR technician and often stating how the Petitioner contributed 
to a specific business. But contributions that benefit a specific business or individual client do not 
establish that the Petitioner made original contributions that broadly impact his field. For instance, on 
appeal the Petitioner lists and rovides excerpts from several opinion letters, including letters from: I lof who discussed a protection program that his dealership offered 
to purchasers of the vehicles; Iwho discussed the Petitioner's work at Mr. 
collision repair business; of 1 who referred to 
the Petitioner's "original contributions" and "unique approach" involving "skillfully adapted 
traditional tools and techniques"· and _______ 2 who worked in various management 
positions atl Iand and discussed his interaction with Petitioner when the Petitioner 
repaired Mr.I lrental vehicle using the PDR approach. While these testimonials describe 
the Petitioner as a skilled PDR technician and discuss how he contributed to their respective 
businesses, they do not describe Petitioner's specific approach or state how he adapted the PDR tools 
and techniques. As such, they do not establish that the Petitioner's approach and adaptations resulted 
in significant contributions to the PDR industry. 
Likewise, the advisory opinions ofI I an associate professor at I_____ 
I I mechanical engineering department, and I I an associate professor of 
biomedical industrial and systems engineering at ______ also highlight the Petitioner's 
experience and skills in automotive body repair but neither discusses how the Petitioner's 
contributions are original and significant in the field of automotive body repair. We also question the 
reliability of Dr. I I opinion given his unexplained and irrelevant references to the Petitioner 
as a "seasoned Strength and Conditioning Coach in the United States" with "expertise" in the area of 
health science and strength training. Neither the Petitioner nor any of the other supporting documents 
corroborate these references which do not support the current petition. 
Ultimately, given the deficiencies discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
1 The record shows that the correct spelling of this individual's surname is as listed above, rather than the Petitioner's 
iteration, which listed the surname as I I 
2 For the record, we note that there are several anomalies concerning the name and spellin of this individual whose 
testimonial statement contains two different iterations of his last name. The letter initially lists m 
the introduct01y portion of the letter but in the space directly below the signature line the name was written as _IThe Petitioner offered a third iteration, listing this individual as ___ 
4 I 
Now we tum to the Petitioner's claim that he satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
which requires evidence that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
with a distinguished reputation. 
In addressing this criterion, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of a letter from the 
mayor ofl !Florida as well as letters from individuals who work in the automotive industry 
and are familiar with the Petitioner's work. However, the Director determined that the evidence did 
not establish that the Petitioner has held a role critical or leading in an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he demonstrated his critical or leading role by documenting his 
specific achievements and their "effects on the overall organization." 
Although the record contains evidence concerning the Petitioner's employment with 
____________________ and ________ such evidence 
does not establish that any one of the positions held with the listed entities met all the elements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). First, regarding the Petitioner's employment withl I 
the record contains an employment letter from the entity's proprietor who 
listed the Petitioner's job duties as a PDR instructor and stated that the Petitioner's "teaching skills 
made him an important asset and prominent figure with the company." To establish that the Petitioner 
held or holds a leading role, we look for evidence that he was "a leader within the organization or 
establishment or a division or department thereof." 6 USCTS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. To establish that the Petitioner's 
role was or is critical, we look for evidence that he "contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment." Id. The Petitioner has not offered evidence that his 
employment as an instructor at meets either set of the listed 
requirements. 
And notwithstanding the Petitioner's ownership interest and thus his leading or critical roles at the 
_______ in Brazil and in the United States, the record lacks 
sufficient evidence that either is an entity with a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner provided a 
letter from the mayor ofl IFlorida, who referred to the city's "thriving automotive industry" 
and broadly stated that ] "contributed significantly to the overall economic well-
being of I I Florida" and "earned a reputation as an extremely distinguished establishment 
within I I PDR industry." However, these broad claims were not supported by specific 
information pertaining to relevant factors, such as the scale of the I Icustomer 
base, evidence of significant fonding, or any relevant media coverage the business may have received. 
See id. And while the Petitioner discussed his role and job duties at the in Brazil, 
he neither claimed nor offered evidence to show that the entity had a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also highlights several previously submitted testimonial letters that he claims serve as 
evidence of his leading or critical role in an organization with a distinguished reputation. However, 
we note that the USCIS Policy Manual specifically states that, "Evidence of experience must consist 
5 
of letters from employers." 6 USC IS Policy Manual F .2(B)( l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual; 
see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l). 
Here, most of the testimonials concerning the Petitioner's professional experience did not originate 
from former employers or trainers, but rather from businesses that used the Petitioner's dent repair 
services in some other capacity that was not specified. For instance, the letter froml I the 
used cars director at the I I in Florida, states that the Petitioner spearheaded a project 
called "Dent Away atl I and asserts that the Petitioner assumed a "critical role as the 
creator, implementer, and leader of this project." However, Mr. I I discussed the Petitioner in 
broad terms, stating that he specialized "in handling large-size dents" which he claimed set the 
Petitioner apart "compared to all other professionals." He did not specifically list the Beneficiary's 
duties or indicate that the Petitioner was employed by Iorganization, nor did the Petitioner claim 
or offer evidence to show that thel Iwhere he provided his services, is an organization 
with a distinguished organization. Likewise, the Petitioner provided letters from several business 
owners and operators of businesses that deal in auto body repair, all discussing their prior encounters 
with the Petitioner in his capacity as a PDR technician. 3 These letters, however, discuss work 
completed, but do not demonstrate that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. And despite highlighting the Petitioner's skills and the 
quality of his work, the letters do not indicate that the Petitioner was an employee of the said 
businesses, nor does the Petitioner's resume list these businesses as former employers. 
In light of the deficiencies described above, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Finally, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner commanded a high salary or other remuneration relative to others in the field. In denying 
the petition, the Director questioned the relevance of evidence pertaining to salaries of automotive 
technicians, noting the distinction between automotive technicians and the Petitioner's job as a PDR 
technician. The Director also determined that the Petitioner's U.S. business earnings are not 
comparable to the salary of a PDR technician. 
The Petitioner disputes the Director's findings and offers the legal opinion of an attorney in Brazil, 
who discusses Brazil's occupation classifications and explains why the occupation codes for a tinsmith 
and an automotive repair technician, respectively, are applicable to a PDR technician. The Petitioner 
also provides comparative salary data for dent repair technicians in the United States, listing data from 
ZipRecruiter, which shows average salaries for PDR technicians in the State ofFlorida, and from Dent 
Wizard, which also shows salaries for PDR technicians but does not specify a locality. Regardless, 
unlike the comparative data pertaining to employees who provide auto body repair services, the 
Petitioner in this instance is and has been the proprietor of the businesses where he has provided 
services of a PDR technician. As such, it is likely that the Petitioner's earnings as a business owner 
reflect not only time devoted to PDR services, but also includes time spent on administrative and 
business management tasks that would typically be required of a business owner. Because the 
Petitioner has not offered evidence establishing the salary he earned as a PDR technician, as opposed 
3 The record includes letters from owners of the I I and I Ias well as a letter from the 
president of and a letter from an 
6 
to a proprietor of a business that provides PDR services, he has not adequately demonstrated that he 
has commanded a high salary relative to others in his field. In light of the evidentiary deficiency 
described herein, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the requirements ofthe criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 11, 2024 In Re: 31861544 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a machine learning research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner states that he is one of the few leading speech recognition experts in machine learning. 
He states that he is well-known for his work developing spoken English audio suitable for training 
speech recognition systems with limited or no supervision . He seeks to continue his research in the 
field of machine learning in the United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time 
achievement , he must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he met three of these criteria: 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record demonstrated that he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i v) and (vi), having participated 
as a judge of the work of others, and having authored scholarly articles. However, the Director 
informed the Petitioner that the evidence was not sufficient to establish that he met the other claimed 
criteria. The Director allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to 
demonstrate that he satisfied at least one more of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence asserting that he meets the 
following criteria: 
• (v), Original contribution s of major significance ; and 
• (ix), Commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, 
in relation to others in the field. 
2 
In denying the petition, the Director again determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that he met 
only two of the ten criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participating as a judge of the work of others, and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles. The record supports the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner claimed but did not submit sufficient evidence 
establishing that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field; and evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously 
submitted evidence was sufficient to establish that he satisfied these additional criteria. He also 
submits additional evidence in support of his claims. After reviewing the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
To establish eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), a petitioner must show that 
they have commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field. In evaluating this criterion, USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has 
commanded" to mean that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration. 
Therefore, a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary or remuneration may establish 
that the person has been able to command such compensation. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on evaluation ofinitial evidence 
of extraordinary ability under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Evidence relevant to demonstrating an 
individual's high salary may include comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, 
such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Id. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a 2020 performance summary from his previous 
employer, demonstrating that he was given a 23.75% salary increase, from 
$156,800 to $194,040, and other benefits for his performance as a research engineer. The Petitioner 
also submitted a copy of his 2021 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, which reflects his total 
compensation with as $351,289.74. He also provided a copy ofhis folly-executed 
employment agreement with his current U.S. employer, a California based technology company 
focused on developing artificial intelligence. The employment agreement indicates he accepted the 
position of principal engineer at an annual salary of $180,000, beginning in November 2021, with 
annual increases upon review, a sign-on bonus of $15,000, and stock options. In addition, the 
Petitioner submitted comparative wage information in the form of spreadsheets from the U.S. Bureau 
ofLabor Statistics (BLS) providing average annual salary data for positions similar based in California 
for 2021 and 2022. 
The Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion was largely based on her 
conclusion that the comparative wage data was "unreadable." On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
additional comparative wage data from BLS for similar positions in California. The additional 
evidence reflects that the average salary for California-based software developers was $146,770 in 
2021. The Petitioner's 2021 Form W-2 provides sufficient evidence that the Petitioner "has 
commanded" a salary as a research engineer, the occupation he intends to pursue in the United States, 
3 
and therefore can be compared to the submitted salary data provided for this occupation. The 
Petitioner's November 2021 employment agreement further demonstrates that his prospective salary 
as a principal engineer can be compared to the salary data in the record. Upon de novo review of the 
comparative wage data, we conclude that the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the basis for the denial of his petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the initial 
evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility 
claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks or 
establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. On remand, the Director 
should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety, including the evidence submitted 
on appeal, to make a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 12, 2023 In Re: 22684439 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dressage trainer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Director 
also dismissed a subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider, stating that the Petitioner had 
not presented English language translations of his foreign language documents in accordance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3).1 The Director's decision on motion further indicated that because 
the Petitioner had not provided proper English language translations, "all evidence submitted fails to 
be considered as probative and will not be considered." The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
Our review of the record indicates that the Petitioner 's motion before the Director included properly 
certified English language translations of his foreign language documents in compliance with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) . The Director's decision on motion should have considered these 
translated documents , as well as the letters of support and other evidence that were not in a foreign 
language. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision "did not consider all probative 
evidence" and the record supports this conclusion. Because the Director's decision did not consider 
the arguments and evidence presented by the Petitioner, we remand this proceeding to the Director for 
a new decision addressing the merits of the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
1 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) . 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 12, 2023 In Re: 26876655 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § 115 3(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a bachelor of commerce degree and approximately 20 years of work experience as 
an accountant, auditor, financial controller, and entrepreneur. At the time of filinr, he indicated that 
he was employed as a senior accounting manager for I a pharmaceutical 
products distributor, in H-lB nonimmigrant status. In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner 
is the founder/president of two U.S. companies operating in the pharmaceutical industry. The 
Petitioner indicates that he intends to continue working in the United States as an entrepreneur in this 
industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet four of the criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) 
based on evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a 
distinguished reputation, and evidence that he had commanded a high salary in relation to others in 
the field. The Director concluded that the record did not support the Petitioner's claims that he could 
meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires evidence of his membership in 
associations which require outstanding achievements, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
evidence of original contributions of major significance in the field. Accordingly, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
On appeal, 1 the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that the previously 
submitted evidence was insufficient to satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not address or dispute the Director's finding that he had not established eligibility 
under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As the Petitioner provides no 
evidence or arguments addressing this criterion, we consider this issue to be waived and will not 
farther discuss it. See Matter ofR-A-M-25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a 
1 The Petitioner's appeal consists of the Form T-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, a cover letter, a copy of the Director's 
decision, and a brief statement identifying the basis for an appeal. The Petitioner indicated on the Form T-290B that he 
would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to this office within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal. The record does 
not reflect the Petitioner's subsequent submission of a brief or evidence in support of this appeal filed on February 13, 
2023. 
2 
filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also 
Sepulveda v. US. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005) (citing United States v. 
Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, 
and that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements 
based on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment of dues 
or fees do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that his 
membership in the I O I chapter of The Entrepreneurs' Organization (EO) satisfies he 
requirements of this criterion. 2 
The Petitioner's original submission included evidence ofhis membership in EO, copies ofe-mails he 
exchanged with EO in connection with his application, and information from the association's website 
which explains its purpose and mission, the membership application process, and the minimum 
qualifications required for membership. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
provided a letter froml I an attomel and managing partner who serves as membership 
chair for thel IEO chapter. I indicates that she interviewed the Petitioner as part 
of his membership application process. 
EO is described as "a global, peer-to-peer network ofmore than 14,000+ influential business owners." 
To qualify for membership, a prospective member must apply with evidence that (1) they are a 
founder, co-founder, owner or controlling shareholder of a company, and (2) their company has gross 
income of more than US$ I million annually. Prospective members that own venture backed 
companies must provided evidence of funding ($2 million in privately raised funds or $5 million in 
publicly raised funds) and evidence that they employ at least 10 full-time workers. Applicants who 
meet the membership requirements are interviewed before a decision is made on their applications. 
In her letter, I I asserts that, based on her position as membership chair ofthel IEO 
chapter, she "can attest that the membership qualification requires aspiring members to have 
extraordinary ability as business owners, as demonstrated by the qualifications and the invitation 
2 The Petitioner does not pursue his previous claim that his position as a voluntary board member fo~-~-----' 
a community development fund and business accelerator, is a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 
I process that follows the application." She emphasizes that "EO does not allow membership to every 
person running a company or corporation," and states the minimum revenue requirements provided 
on the EO website. I I also highlights the required interview, noting that it allows the 
opportunity to "explore the applicants' interest in joining EO" and to ensure an aspiring member would 
be "a good fit for the organization." She notes that"[o ]nly after the interview will the local EO chjpterl 
determine whether to accept and invite the applicant into EO as an official member." Finally,Istates that the Petitioner was invited to join because he met the "extraordinary requirements" 
and "demonstrated a commitment to the mission of EO." 
The Director acknowledged and discussed the documentation addressed above but determined that it 
was insufficient to establish that EO requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in the field as required by the plain language of the regulation. The 
Director emphasized the lack of verifiable evidence such as the association's bylaws or similar 
governing documents. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted sufficient verifiable 
evidence to establish that his membership in EO satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner has correctly asserted that admission as a member in EO is not based on achieving a 
certain level of education, a minimum amount of professional experience, employment in a specific 
occupation or payment of dues alone. Although memberships based solely on these factors will 
generally not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), it does not automatically follow that 
associations with a higher bar for admission necessarily satisfy all elements of this criterion. 
Here, the record reflects that any individual who is a founder, owner or controlling shareholder of a 
company with gross annual income of $1 million meets the minimum requirements for membership 
in EO. While this revenue requirement indicates a certain level of achievement and limits the number 
of business owners who are eligible for consideration, there is no indication that it is an achievement 
that is "judged by recognized national or international experts" as part ofthe decision-making process. 
Further,! Iindicated that the interview process ensures that an aspiring member is a "good fit" 
for the association, but the record does not establish what factors are considered other than 
demonstrating a dedication to the association's mission, which appears unrelated to a determination 
that an individual has "outstanding achievements" in their discipline or field. While the record reflects 
that the "local chapter" makes membership decisions, there is no description of the decision-making 
process. The information provided on the EO website does not identify what other factors may be 
considered during that process and does not indicate who ultimately makes membership decisions and 
whether those individuals are recognized national or international experts in the business field. 
Accordingly, we agree that there is insufficient verifiable evidence regarding EO's membership 
requirements and admission processes to demonstrate that the Petitioner's membership in this 
association satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that (1) they performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an 
4 
organization or establishment, and (2) the organization or establishment, or the relevant department or 
division, has a distinguished reputation. The Director determined, without discussion ofthe evidence, 
that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion based on the documentation included with his initial 
submission. We conclude that the record contains insufficient evidence to support the Director's 
conclusion. 
In a cover letter that accom anied the initial submission the Petitioner stated that he served in a critical 
role for both.__ ______________________ __. The Petitioner submitted 
letters from persons able to attest to his performance in a critical role with both companies. However, 
the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that either of these organizations has a 
distinguished reputation, such as media reports or rankings, industry awards or any other relevant 
independent evidence that would establish the companies' reputation or standing in the field or 
industry. The Director erred by making a favorable determination without such evidence. Accordingly, 
we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. The 
Petitioner provided copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for 2016 and 2017, along with comparative salary 
data sufficient to demonstrate that his salary was high in relation to other similarly employed workers 
in his field. Accordingly, this criterion has been met. 
However, based on the foregoing discussion of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), the Petitioner has satisfied only one ofthe ten criteria and therefore has not met the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 12, 2024 In Re: 31977149 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney, has filed a petition on behalf of a physician who seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner described the Beneficiary as "a Physician who specializes in Health Services Research." 
The Beneficiary earned a bachelor's degree in neuroscience from the I I 
in 2016, and both a doctor of medicine and master of public health degrees from thel I 
_____ at the in 2021. The Beneficiary then completed a one-
year internal medicine internship inl IColorado in 2022. When the Petitioner filed the petition 
in September 2023, the Beneficiary was about one year into a four-year residency in diagnostic 
radiology at the The Beneficiary intends "to establish a network of 
free or accessible healthcare clinic[s] ... to improve access to cancer screening services for 
underserved communities and people living in rural areas," and to apply artificial intelligence "to 
create solutions to healthcare's biggest problems." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven ofthese criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence met two of the criteria, relating to participation 
as a judge and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence also 
meets the criterion relating to leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding the criteria relating to prizes, memberships, published material, and original 
contributions. Therefore, we consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on those criteria. 1 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen.. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2731201 1, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (concluding the plaintiff's claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office). 
2 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner's evidence has satisfied the criteria relating to judging 
and scholarly articles. We will discuss the remaining claimed criterion below. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As explained below, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence that satisfies the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "has performed in a leading and critical role for distinguished 
organizations." The use ofthe plural "organizations" implies multiple organizations, but the Petitioner 
has identified only one organization. 
The Petitioner initially stated: 
During his tenure as a medical student at the in 20 l 7, [ the 
Beneficiary] established a student-run clinic to serve individuals who inject drugs 
called He established the clinic to work in conjunction with 
thel lwhich is the only program in Florida .... [H]e 
implemented an interdisciplinary patient navigation program. . . . Moreover, he 
launched a successful campaign to improve legislation that would expand access to 
syringes throughout the state of Florida. 
The Petitioner corroborated some of the above claims, but not others. For example, the Petitioner did 
not submit evidence to support the claim that the Beneficiary was significantly responsible for the 
passage oflegislation to expand thel Iprogram beyond its initial pilot location inl I 
Statements in a brief are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. See Matter 
ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a letter from an assistant professor at which reads, in part: 
Our program, the I I is housed within our 
Division of Infectious Diseases. After I implemented this program, [ students 
identified] a need to add a I . .. In his roles as a founding member 
and project manager of the I I [ the Beneficiary] .... created the clinic's 
electronic health record and led recruitment and marketing efforts when the clinic first 
opened. . . . I have observed him expertly teaching the principles of harm reduction to 
student volunteers and visiting politicians. 
Letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or 
department was leading or critical. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. In this instance, the faculty member's letter does not fully address this requirement. We note 
that the letter was not written to support the petition in 2023. Rather, the faculty member wrote the 
3 
letter in 2020 as a recommendation for the Beneficiary's admission into a "diagnostic radiology 
residency." Therefore, the author ofthe letter was not seeking to address the regulatory requirements. 
We agree with the Director's determination that, while the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary 
had a leading role at the I I the Petitioner has not established that the I I has a 
distinguished reputation. Similarly, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary's 
establishment of the patient navigator program amounted to a leading or critical role for the I I 
I I 
The namel is an acronym for a Florida state law. While the 
program is statewide, the Petitioner does not claim that the Beneficiary has played a leading or 
critical role for the entire program. Rather, the Beneficiary's involvement has been with one 
clinic affiliated with the first at 
As "evidence that the I I and the I I ha[ ve] been featured in the media on 
numerous occasions," the Petitioner submitted copies of the following materials: 
• A 2019 blog post, published by a foundation that "awarded [ the Beneficiary] a Student Summer 
Fellowship grant to support the implementation and evaluation of the Patient Navigator 
Program" at the I I 
• Printouts from the I I website, quoting various media articles and university 
press releases about the I I One quotation refers directly to the "new student-
run I but the submitted printout does not identify the source of the quotation; 
• A printout from the I I website, describing the services offered and soliciting 
volunteers; and 
• An article about the Beneficiary and the I I from the Spring 2020 issue ofc=] 
described in the record as "[a] research magazine published by the students 
ofthe 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had established the Beneficiary's 
leading or critical role for the I I but had not shown that the I Ihas a distinguished 
reputation. The Director noted that the clinic's own promotional materials have little weight as 
evidence of its reputation, and that I Ipublications and websites do not establish the clinic's 
reputation beyond that university. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted several materials about the I I and stated: "it is 
abundantly clear that is a distinguished organization." In this way, the 
Petitioner conflated thel land thel IBut thel lis an offshoot of 
the I and a leading or critical role for the clinic is not necessarily leading or critical 
for the entirel IFurthermore, while thel Ibegan as a single pilot location 
at the record indicates that state legislation passed in 2019 allowed the establishment ofadditional 
exchange locations. Some of the materials submitted in response to the RFE concern the entire 
statewideI !program. Such materials are only relevant if the Petitioner establishes the 
Beneficiary's leading or critical role for the program at a statewide level. The Petitioner does not meet 
this burden with the unsubstantiated claim that the Beneficiary was largely responsible for the passage 
of the 2019 legislation. 
4 
The distinction between the I I and the I I is evident, for example, in a 2019 
article from National Public Radio's website, which discusses several I Iprograms, but 
does not mention the that the Beneficiary helped to establish. A 2021 article from 
US. News and World Report focuses on a "hybrid needle exchange telehealth and HIV medication 
outreach program." The record does not establish the extent of the Beneficiary's involvement, if any, 
with this aspect of _____ work. The article mentions that I I provides 
"medical treatment" but does not specifically mention the ______ 
When a beneficiary's role is leading or critical for a department or division of an organization, rather 
than for the entire organization, then the petitioner must establish the distinguished reputation of the 
department or division for which the beneficiary holds a leading or critical role. See, generally, 
6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The submitted materials likewise do not mention the patient navigator program, and therefore they do 
not show that the Beneficiary's involvement in establishing that program amounted to a leading or 
critical role for the I I 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner established "the leading and/or critical role 
of the beneficiary at the I I but, the record does not sufficiently establish the distinguished 
reputation enjoyed by the I The Director also noted that some materials refer to the I I as a potentially temporary pilot program, and cited apparent shortcomings in some 
of the submitted publications. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that, while some materials in the record refer to the 
as a pilot program, other materials show that the State of Florida expanded by 
program by legislation in 2019. Also, some ofthe submitted online publications appear to derive from 
major media outlets. This information, however, does not rebut the Director's core determination, 
because that determination did not rest solely on those issues. The Director referred to "the I I and I I indicating that the terms are not interchangeable names for the same 
thing, and concluded that "the record does not sufficiently establish the distinguished reputation 
enjoyed by the I I Coverage of the I I was considerably more limited than 
coverage of the larger I I 
The Petitioner asserts, on a eal, that the evidence in the RFE response showed "the eminence and 
distinction ofthe although the relevant materials contained little or no 
mention of the 
The Petitioner quotes 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l): "For academic departments, 
programs, and institutions, officers may also consider ... receipt of government research grants as 
positive factors." The Petitioner states that the Director "ignored the evidence submitted in the RFE 
Response which indicates that the I is the recipient of a major NIH grant." The cited 
evidence is a press release from the I Ireferring to "a new $3 .1 million grant from the National 
Institutes of Health." The press release does not mention the I I or indicate that the scope 
of the grant includes I I 
5 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for the I I as a whole, or that the I I - the department or division for which he 
performed in such a role -has a distinguished reputation in its own right. 
The Petitioner has not met its burden of proof to satisfy at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 203.4(h)(3). We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
While we have not undertaken a full final merits determination, we will briefly address the issue of 
sustained acclaim. The bulk of the record concerns activities that the Beneficiary undertook while he 
was still a medical student, and his medical training was still ongoing when the Petitioner filed the 
petition in 2023. The evidence shows that the Beneficiary has been active and dedicated, but it does 
not establish that he has earned sustained national or international acclaim or reached the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of medicine. The Beneficiary's activity as a judge has been as 
a reviewer for the Journal ofStudent-Run Clinics. The record does not indicate that this journal is a 
prestigious publication that invites only top physicians to participate in peer review. A submitted 
printout from the journal's own website acknowledges that the journal has yet to "achieve the 
publication volume and quality criteria established by the National Library of Medicine" to qualify 
"to be indexed by popular searchable databases such as MEDLINE and PubMed Central." The 
Petitioner initially claimed media coverage of the Beneficiary's work, but has not shown that the 
Beneficiary received significant attention from independent major media, as opposed to local, campus, 
or student publications. Coverage ofl Ithat did not mention the Beneficiary does not 
contribute to his acclaim or recognition. 
Also, the record includes little information about his accomplishments and recognition after he 
graduated from I I more than two years before he filed the petition. The Petitioner has not 
documented any published articles by the Petitioner that did not derive from his work atl IThe 
Petitioner's RFE response indicated that the Beneficiary is the vice president of the Residents and 
Fellows Section of the but the Petitioner did not establish that this 
position indicates recognition beyond trainee residents at the state level. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
did not mention this position at the time of filing, and the evidence in the RFE response does not say 
when the Beneficiary became the section's vice president. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary held this position at the time of filing. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility 
requirements at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Subsequent facts cannot retroactively 
establish eligibility. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
Also in the RFE response, the Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary interviewed for 
residencies at several prestigious medical schools in 2020. The Petitioner claimed: "Interviews at 
these prestigious institutions are only offered to a small percentage [ of] professionals who have risen 
6 
to the top oftheir field of endeavor." The Petitioner did not substantiate this claim, and as noted above 
the Petitioner's unsupported claims have no evidentiary weight. Residencies are late-stage training 
for recent medical school graduates. The Petitioner has not established that interviews for such 
residencies are recognition afforded to "professionals who have risen to the top of their field." 
The Beneficiary seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the 
top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of the Beneficiary's work that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 12, 2024 In Re: 31764796 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012, and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification through evidence ofhis receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In 2014, we dismissed a subsequent appeal. We have since adjudicated 
sixteen motions filed by the Petitioner between 2014 and 2023, and most recently dismissed combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider on December 6, 2023. The matter is now before us on combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief and a copy of our most recent decision. As our decision is 
already a part of the record, it is not new evidence that could provide proper cause for reopening this 
matter. In his brief, he asserts that in our previous decision we misstated the number of motions he 
has filed in this matter, adding an extra motion, and that this is a new fact that justifies reopening the 
decision. We initially note that this assertion is not supported by documentary evidence, as is required 
of a motion to reopen. The copies of previous notices and decisions that he relies upon in support of 
this assertion were submitted with his previous motion to reopen, and as we explained in our decision 
dismissing that motion, were already a part of the record and thus did not reflect new facts. 
Regardless, the Petitioner's assertion is based upon his own list ofthe dates ofour decisions on motions 
issued prior to his previous motion, which includes fourteen dates but omits our decision of June 8, 
2023. Our most recent previous decision therefore correctly referred to the fifteen previous motions 
on its first page, and to the fourteen motion dismissals we issued in this matter prior to our decision of 
June 8, 2023 on its second page. 
Further, even if the Petitioner was correct about the number of motions he has filed, which he is not, 
he does not explain how this would have been material to his eligibility for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. As the Petitioner has not stated any new facts that establish his 
eligibility and would warrant reopening, and has not submitted documentary evidence to support his 
assertion, his submission does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen. 
Turning to the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, such a motion must establish that our prior decision 
was based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review 
on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(ii). We may grant 
motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In his brief, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision by referring to our decision of 
December 15, 2014 and evidence he has submitted over the past ten years, asserting that it 
demonstrates that he meets the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification by meeting 
three of the evidentiary criteria. But as noted above, our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision on the Petitioner's sixteenth motion, not the numerous decisions we have issued earlier. 
And as we explained in our decision on the Petitioner's sixteenth motion, as well as in previous 
motions, we will not re-adjudicate the petition anew on motion. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56,58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in 
essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the 
prior Board decision"). 
The Petitioner also asks us to apply policy guidance regarding the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) which was issued on September 12, 2023 and pertained to the evaluation of 
evidence in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields. He reminds us that the 
record shows that he studied civil engineering, and asserts that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services "typically takes a favorable look at accomplished individuals in STEM-related fields." But 
the Petitioner does not elaborate on how his completion of a handful of introductory courses in a civil 
engineering curriculum supports his eligibility for this classification as a professor of law and 
economics. Cf Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) ( declining to address a "passing 
reference" to an argument in a brief that did not provide legal support). And again, this request seeks 
a de nova reevaluation of the entire record, and does not focus on any error in the analysis provided in 
our most recent decision. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts sufficient to overcome our previous decision. Nor has he 
established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the 
2 
time we issued our decision. Consequently, the Petitioner has not met the applicable requirements for 
either a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. The motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8096029 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 14, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a boxer and kickboxer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or internationa l acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement of either a one-time achievement or 
meeting at least three of the alternate evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Petitioner subsequently filed a motion to reconsider , which the Director granted, but he again found 
that the Petitioner met only one of the requisite three criteria. On appeal, he asserts that in addition to 
establishing his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, the evidence shows that he 
meets an additional four criteria, and that he is eligible as an athlete of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstra ted by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individual s in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
mate1ial provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner competes as a boxer and kickboxer and has received several awards in both spo1ts in 
his native- as well as a Master of Sports ____ aesignation in kickboxing. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . As noted above, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 3-04.5.Cb.)(3 (iv), based upon his participation as a kickboxing judge in several 
tournaments in.____ On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets an additional four 
evidentiary criteria, and submits five new reference letters. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 
19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). After reviewing 
all of the evidence previously in the record, we find that it does not establish that the Petitioner meets 
the initial evidence requirement. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As noted above, the evidence includes copies of ce1tificates showing that the Petitioner has received 
several awards in boxing and kickboxing tournament s. The Director found in his previous decision 
that because these awards were for competition at the amateur level, thus excluding professional 
athletes, they could not be considered as qualifying awards under this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner points out that only amateur boxers are allowed to compete in the Olympic Games, and 
asserts that amateur boxing is a sport "with its "own identity"" apait from professional boxing. While 
we note that several items of evidence indicate that advancing to the professiona l level is the aspiration 
of many amateur boxers, including the Petitioner, we agree that the plain language of this criterion 
does not necessarily eliminate prizes or awards received in amateur competition from consideration. 
2 
As to whether the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, the Petitioner does not address 
this issue on appeal, but singled out some of the awards in a letter accompanying his motion to 
reconsider. He began by noting that six of the boxing tournament s were held outside of his native 
country, and that nine of them were titled as "international" tournamen ts. However, neither the 
location of a tomnament nor the inclusion of the term "international " in its title is a determinative 
factor when considering whether prizes or awards issued at those tournaments receive national or 
international recognition . A more relevant factor, the significance of the awards in the field, is 
addressed in a reference letter from _____________ of the Boxing Federation of 
- describes ranks that are applied to competitions "in the qualification norms 
and requirements for the types of spo1ts recognized" in -with the Olympic Games among those 
receiving a rank of I and world and European championships receiving a rank of II. Although he 
concludes that based on these classifications, "[it] can be stated with confidence that the awards won 
by [the Petitioner] have unquestionable value as awards of the highest rank on the national scale," he 
does not identify the ranking assigned to the Petitioner's awards.1 
The Petitioner then went on to focus on two boxing awards received by the Petitioner at the 
"International -Tournament" and the ' ____ tournament, " both of which occurred in Poland 
in 2015 and resulted in the Petitioner placing second in his weight class and fight category. He 
submitted two brief statements from the website bokser.org, one which states that the --•Golden 
Gloves tournament is "known throughout Europe," and another which states regarding a third 
tournament that "fans saw very high level matches." However, the record does not include information 
about this website, and the brief, vague statements posted on it are insufficient to establish the 
significance of these tournaments and awards at the national or international level. 
However, regarding the kickboxing awards, the evidence sufficiently establishes that the -
kickboxing championship in - 2013 at which the Petitioner placed in two events served as a 
qualifying tournament for the Ukrainian national team. As such, we disagree with the Director and 
find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Documen tation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must document their membership in an association within 
their field of expe1tise, and establish not only that the association requires outstanding achievemen ts 
of candidates as a condition of membership, but that the detennination of whether they possess the 
required outstanding achievement s is done by recognized national or international experts. 
In his most recent decision, although the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's membership in the 
-Sports Club, WTKA2, and the~ ational Kickboxing Team, he found that the record 
1 As discussed in detail further below, ______ lso states that due to his receipt of these boxing awards, the Petitioner 
received the title of Master of Sport. However, while the record includes evidence that he received the Master of Sport 
title in WTKA kickboxing, there is no evidence to corroborate claim regarding any boxing titles. 
2 Although the name of this association appears in the record as •---- ~ports Amateur Association WTKA," we take 
3 
did not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that these groups require outstanding achievements 
of their members. He also dete1mined that the Petitioner's "Master of Sp01ts in WTKA Kickboxing" 
title was similarly w1supported by independent and objective evidence of membership requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on his Master of Sports title, and refers to two previously submitted 
reference letters which describe the requirements to receive that title. The first letter was written by 
_____ i.. _____ of the - WTKA, and describes the requirements for receiving 
the Master of Sports designation, but consistently refers to it as a title rather than a membership. The 
second letter, written by as discussed above, refers to the Petitioner's boxing 
accomplishments and requirements to receive a Master of Sports in boxing, but the record does not 
include evidence to support his receipt of this title in boxing. 3 Further, neither letter mentions an 
association into which the Petitioner was granted entry as a result of being conferred this title. As 
such, the Petitioner's receipt of a Master of Sports in WTKA Kickboxing title does not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. 
In addition, while the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's revious decision regarding his 
membership on the- national kickboxing team and the ___ Sports Club on appeal, we 
agree that the evidence does not sufficiently establish that those associations require outstanding 
achievements of their members. Also, regarding the national team, we note that in an article titled ,. 
'dated ____ _, 2013, the Petitioner's victories in that tournament are verified, but he 
is not one of the three individuals named as being selected for the national team. This directly 
contradicts statement that he was a full member of the national kickboxing team from 
2012 through 2016, as well as notations in the index of the Petitioner's RFE response which indicate 
that he qualified based on these results. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, l 9 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). Here, although the record includes evidence that the Petitioner earned awards at 
tournaments which served as selection criteria for the national team, we note that the record lacks 
evidence of his pruticipation in any continental or world kickboxing championships, or other 
competitions, as a member of that team. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established his membership 
on the( kickboxing team, or that he otherwise meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision on motion, the Director found that only one of the four articles submitted by the 
Petitioner was about him, and cited to two federal district comt decisions for the proposition that media 
articles which are about a team or show of which an individual is a part are not about the individual. 
administrative notice that this appears to be the ____ chapter of the World Traditiona l Kickboxing Association, one 
of four amateur kickboxing associations appearing in the record. The others are WAKO, VfKF and TAKSA. 
3 The Petitioner claimed in his RFE response to have received a Master of Sports title in both boxing and kickboxing. 
While he refers to _____ _.etter on appeal, he does not appear to continue to claim both titles. 
4 We note that although the otiginal version of this article was not initially submitted, an identical version including the 
otiginal and translation, as posted on another website and reference d below, was submitted in his RFE response. 
4 
Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d. 535 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ (D. Nev. Sep. 8, 2008). The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director misapplied 
Noroozi, arguing that contrary to the court's finding in that case that the individual was mentione d "in 
passing," at least one additional article in the record goes beyond that threshold in its discussion of the 
Petitioner. That article, titled " -------------------------- and appearing on the website www.galsports.com, includes multiple introductory and 
concluding paragraph s describing the competition in general, and devotes one sentence each to the 
Petitioner and eight other athletes, describing their results in the competition. As the article does not 
provide details about any of the individual athletes beyond their results in the competition , it is about 
a group of athletes from the•----------• vho competed in the national kickboxing 
championships in 2018, and is not about the Petitioner. Another two articles similarly discuss other 
competition results of ' ____ .thletes" as a group, mentioning the Petitioner only to report his 
specific results, and so are also not about him. 
The one article that is about the Petitioner, which focuses on his victory in a boxing tournament in 
-in 2012, was posted on the website www.sport.if.ua. Unlike the three articles mentioned 
above, this article mentions the Petitioner in its title, and includes two paragraph s wherein his coach 
describes the Petitioner's fight and future prospects as a boxer in detail. However , the Director cited 
reliability issues with articles retrieved from the Internet in general, and noted that while website traffic 
data was supplied for this domain, it was not sufficient to establish that in comparison to other news 
or sports websites, www.sport.if.ua is a professional, major trade or other major medium. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that Internet publications "are often the sole source of information" 
and are no less reliable than traditional print publications . Although he does not provide 
documenta tion to support these assertions , these issues are not detennina tive as to whether the website 
qualifies as a major medium. Rather, as noted by the Director, comparative circulation or similar data 
is most relevant to determining whether a particular publication qualifies under this criterion. The 
report supplied by the Petitioner indicates that www.sport.if.ua ranks 256,807 globally in te1ms of 
traffic, and 4,060 in Poland. However , without a comparative data showing its ranking in relation to 
similar websites based in ___ or focused on spo1ts, this evidence does not sufficiently establish 
that this website qualifies as a major medium. In addition, we note that the translation of the webpage 
where this article was posted indicates that sport.if.ua is a "regional sporting Internet po1tal" and is 
therefore targeted towards a smaller readership than media focusing on sports news at the national and 
international level. We therefore agree with the Director and find that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specializati on for which 
class{ficat ion is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director found in his original decision that the Petitioner met this criterion, and repeated this 
finding in his decision on the Petitioner's motion to reconsider. The evidence includes a certificate 
noting that be was confened a second category judge rank in WTKA kickboxing on 
2015 and a first category rank on ___ ...., 2016. The other item of evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion is the reference letter from ____ _, who writes in detail regarding the role of a 
judge in WTKA kickboxing matches. However , we note that while he agrees that the Petitioner 
5 
achieved his second category judge ranking on the date indicated on the ce1tificate , he states that the 
Petitioner received the first category qualification on 2017, more than a year after the 
date indicated on the certificate. In addition, _____ reports that the Petitioner judged WTKA 
competitions beginning in 2012, before the evidence indicates that he had obtained any judging 
certification. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. Here, as the record 
does not include documen tary evidence of the Petitioner having perfonned these judging duties, or an 
explanation and supporting documentation to ve1ify his qualification to perform those duties before 
being certified, the inconsistencies have not been resolved. Accordingly, we disagree with the Director 
and find that the evidence does not serve to demonstrate that he has served as a judge of the work of 
other athletes. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions to the field, but that they have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision on the motion to reconsider, the Director concluded that the reference letters in the 
record were not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner had made original contribut ions of major 
significance to the field of athletics, or boxing or kickboxing in paiticular. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asse1ts that the Director "appears to have ignored the extent of fame and expe1tise" of the letter writers, 
who write of his achievements as an athlete. 
Although he does not identify a specific contribution that he has made to the spo1ts of boxing and 
kickboxing in his appeal brief: the Petitioner did assert on motion that he considered winning boxing 
tournament s to be an original contribution. However, he did not, and has not, explained how his 
victories at boxing and kickboxing tournaments have contributed to those sports, or influenced or 
impacted them in any way. Nor do the reference letters describe any original athletic 1.ontcibut,ion. s, 
made by the Petitioner. r--___________ .... champion boxer and thel._ _____ J ... 
USA Boxing in th ..._ ___ .,-~etropolitan area, provides a list of some of the boxing tournaments in 
which the Petitioner received ai1 award, and offers her expert opinion that he "is a spectacula athlet 
and one of the best boxers I have had the pleasure of watching compete." While --------complement s the Petitioner 's skill as a boxer, she does not indicate that he has used this skill to make 
an original contribution to the sport that has influenced or impacted other athletes. Another boxer, 
also lists several of the Petitioner 's victories, and concludes that his 
achievements ''taken in totality definitely constitute a contribution of major significance to the field of 
boxing." Simply repeating the language of the statute or regulations without elaboration does not 
satisfy the petitioner 's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 
10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). Regardless of the fame or expe1tise of these letter writers, 
this evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8745582 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 14, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pianist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pianist who has performed individually and as a guest artist with multiple 
ensembles. Between 2008 and 2017, the Petitioner studied at the University ofl I 
School of Music, University o~ I and thel I of Music. Because the Petitioner has 
not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiaiy criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material in professional publications or major media under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We do not concur with the Director's decision relating to the awards and 
published material criteria for the reasons discussed below. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that she meets three additional criteria. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the Jield of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that 
she received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes 
or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 Because the record does 
not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
we will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner ar ues that she meets this criterion based on having received first prize in the inaugural 
'T---------r--' International Music Competition I I 2016), first prize in the I I 
.__---,-----I=n=te=rn=a=t=;ional Musical Composition Competition 2016), prize of honor in 
the International Music Competition 2016), first prize in thec=J 
International Music Performance Competition 017), and first and second prizes 
in the .__ __ __,,,..........International Music Competition .__ __ ___, 201 7). 
A screenshot from the website I lcom indicates the c==J, International Music 
Performance Competition is organized by I I Association ofL_J an association that 
organizes "events of great artistic and cultural value inl I and the province," and that the 2016 
edition of the competition saw "290 competitors from as many as 35 countries." General rules for the 
2019 edition of the competition indicate it is open to musicians age 40 and younger and operates "to 
select musicians with high professional qualities to be introduced in [the] national and international 
concert circuit." The rules also provide that first prize in the Petitioner's age categmy includes three 
concerts in the upcoming season of thel !Music Association! land €1,000. 
The Petitioner also submitted information about the inaugurall I Talents International Music 
competition, indicating that event included 106 entrants competing in three categories, with a jury 
composed of "masters and artists of renown inl I and internationally." The materials state that 
the goal ofl !Talents is "to organize informal community-building cultural, educational and 
entertaining programs, events and competitions," aimed at "the discovery of young talented 
musicians," "the propagation of I I musical traditions" and familiarizing "participants and 
visitors alike with the gorgeous! I" 
Regarding the International Musical Composition Competition, the submitted 
rules for the edition of the competition indicate it is organized by the musical association Friends 
of Music ofl land "aims to develop musical creativity and encourage young people to 
study music." The rules provide that the jmy "is composed by teachers of composition from the Italian 
conservatories and Composers of renown fame ( at least three in number " and the wining composition 
"could be performed" during the 2015 Friends of Music o .__ _____ ~concert season. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted rules for the 20191 I International Piano Competition, which 
provide that the cop1D..etit~:m is organized by the Cultural and Musical Association! I in 
cooperation with thel__JMunicipal Town Council. The competition is open to pianists under age 
40, with the aim being "to promote both Musical Culture and music perfmmance in order to encourage 
young students in their study of music, to search for young talent and to attract visitors to come to the 
beautifull O O I in Italy." The rules provide that "[t]he Panel, selected by members 
of the Organizing Committee, will be made up of teachers from different Conservatories, concert 
artists and well-known musicians," with first prize to include €1,500 and two concerts. 
The record also includes a screenshot from the website! lorg, which provides that the 
.__ ____ ___,I International Music Competition is organized by the municipality ot1 I to 
provide "young musicians ... the oppmiunity to show their talent" and winners to perform "at the 
concerts specially arranged for them," and to promote the "cultural heritage ofl I and the 
whole Province! I" 
3 
Here, the evidence does not demonstrate that any of the aforementioned prizes is a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize for excellence in the field. Although the documentation from the 
sponsoring organizations reflects information about the competitions, it does not contain material 
sufficiently evidencing the national or international significance of the prizes in the field. While the 
sponsoring associations describe their competitions as being international events, the evidence does 
not demonstrate that the stated prizes and awards the Petitioner has won are actually nationally or 
internationally recognized. Rather, the materials from those organizations indicate the competitions 
are municipal competitions, and the record does not establish that the Petitioner's prizes in those local 
contests were a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
In addition, the evidence indicates that thel I International Music Performance Competition and 
the I ] International Piano Competition are restricted by age, and the highest first prize award in 
all the above-referenced competitions receives €1,500. The Petitioner did not show that such limited 
age requirements and minor prize money are characteristic of a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize for excellence in the field. Further, while~------~ and I I refer to the 
aforementioned competitions as "prestigious" and "renowned and highly competitive international 
musical competitions," the authors did not support their assertions with detailed, specific, and 
objective information explaining how the overall field views the prizes beyond the sponsoring 
organizations. The Petitioner also did not submit other evidence of the national or international 
recognition of her awards, such as national or widespread local coverage of her awards in arts, 
entertainment, or general media. The Petitioner provided~s releases dated 2017 from the 
websites classical-music.com and stbrides.com for recitals atl___Jchurches that mention her prizes 
in the I I Talents International Music CompetitionJ !International Musical 
Composition Competition, andl I International Music Performance Competition. However, this 
limited media attention does not sufiiciently establish that first place prizes at those competitions are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, she did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about her in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we will withdraw the findings 
of the Director for this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this 
criterion based on aiiicles published in The Piano, The Journal of Music, and on the websites classical­
music.com, stbrides.com, newsrep.co.kr, pandovando.com, and donga.com. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 
The Petitioner submitted articles from The Journal of Music, newsrep.co.kr, and donga.com, 
indicating published material about her relating to her work and containing the required title, date, 
author, and translation. The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that those publications 
represents a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. The Petitioner provided 
a chart titled "Verified Circulation of 163 Daily Newspapers in 201 7 ( for 2016) in Order of Paid 
Subscription," not bearing any indicia of who prepared the chart, which lists the circulation and 
distribution statistics of newspapers including Dong-A Ilbo, indicating it ranks 2. The Petitioner did 
not provide supporting evidence indicating that the online edition of this publication qualifies as 
major media. 4 
Regarding the website classical-music.com, the article from that website indicates it is "[t]he official 
website of BBC Music Magazine." The Petitioner submitted a 2016 media kit for BBC Music 
Magazine indicating its online reach includes "82K users" and a newsletter circulation of "22K 
weekly." She did not demonstrate that those statistics for classical-music.com reflect the website's 
major status. The Petitioner, for instance, did not explain the significance of the circulation figures. 5 
Further, we note that the author of the article is not identified. 
In addition, while the articles from The Piano and stbrides.com are about the Petitioner relating to her 
work, they do not identify the author, and the item from The Piano does not contain the required 
certification from the translator. 6 Further, the article from padovando.com is not accompanied by an 
English language translation. Finally, those articles are not accompanied by any evidence that they 
qualify as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 7 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has provided letters that praise her abilities as a pianist. All of the authors summarize 
her educational background and highlight her receipt of awards and prizes in the aforementioned I I International Music Competition.I !International Musical Composition 
Competition, I !International Music Performance Competition, I I Talents International 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5]d_ 
6 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
Music Competition, and.__ ____ ____, International Music Competition. The letters submitted are 
from the Petitioner's own former colleagues and, therefore, do not demonstrate the Petitioner's significant 
recognition outside of that circle. In addition, while the letters praise the Petitioner's innate talent and 
artistry, they do not contain sufficient information to establish how she has made an original 
contribution that has remarkably influenced or impacted the field. 
For instance,! I a piano professor and the Petitioner's mentor at thel lof 
Music, praises her precise interpretation of piano repertoire, "unrivaled" piano performance skills, and 
"unmatched and phenomenal musical talent and passion in piano." He notes that she "was invited to 
perform at various distinguished concerts all throughout Europe placing her as one of the leading 
active concert pianists in present time." He asserts that such performance opportunities "are only 
given to artists who ha[ve] exceptional skills and musical forte at the highest level as [the Petitioner]." 
He asserts that with her "sensational musical performances" the Petitioner "has achieved a celebrated 
prominence in the field." 
.__~ ___ ___.I a piano professor and the Petitioner's doctoral advisor at the University ofl 0 
states that the Petitioner has "extraordinary skills and passion for piano performance" and is "an 
internationally recognized and acclaimed pianist in the modern era who has made significant progress 
in the field of piano performance." He notes that during her doctoral studies the Petitioner worked on 
a project making an integrated suite out of fragments Mozart's Baroque-style composition studies and 
12erformed th~ at the University o~ I and a recital atl I 
[ ~ inL__JSpain. He describes her as "far above · · · · s" and "among 
the top and most valuable pianists active in the world." a musicology 
professor and member of the Petitioner's dissertation committee at the University o '----~ states 
that the Petitioner's "academic credentials place her far above the typical pianist and musician in our 
field, and musical talent places her among the top circles in the world." 
'-----------~ a piano professor at thel lof Music, praises the Petitioner's 
"extraordinary talent and skills in piano performance and musical concerto." She provides that the 
Petitioner's "precise execution of classical music is unmatched within the field" and she possesses "a 
level of musical acumen ... that only the few in the field are gifted with." She describes her as "one 
of the most talented and celebrated musician[ s] in our era" who "has accomplished so much at a young 
age .... " We note thafl I uses identical language to that contained in the letter from I I in stating that the Petitioner "was invited to perform at various distinguished 
concerts all throughout Europe placing her as one of the leading active concert pianists in present 
time." Similarly to his letter she also asserts that such performance opportunities are only given to 
"the most talented pianists possessing exceptional skills and musical aptitude as [the Petitioner] .... " 
Although the submitted letters c01rnborate that the Petitioner's abilities as a concert pianist are highly 
regarded, they do not contain specific, detailed information identifying the Petitioner's original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence her work has had in the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 8 Here, the letters do not demonstrate the Petitioner's impact 
g See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 
beyond the projects and performances in which she participated.9 We acknowledge that!.__ __ __. 
.__ _ ___.ts letter confirms that during her doctoral studies the Petitioner constructed an integrated suite 
out of fragments Mozart's Baroque-style composition studies. His letter does not establish, however, 
that the Petitioner's work in this regard amounts to an original contribution of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that her work was on 
display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases.10 Here, the record contains evidence 
that Petitioner displayed her work performing at various artistic, musical venues. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. Further, we 
find that although the Petitioner met the display criterion, she did not establish that she meets the 
criteria relating to nationally or internationally recognized awards, published material, and original 
contributions of major significance. We acknowledge that the Petitioner claims eligibility under one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles with organizations or establishments 
that have a distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, as the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this 
remaining criterion. 11 In addition, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.12 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
9 Id.; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
12 In addition, as the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we 
need not determine whether she is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and will not address the Director's separate finding with respect to that issue. 
7 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has displayed her work in piano performances at various artistic, musical 
venues, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17718554 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we dismissed 
because it was filed untimely . Subsequently, the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we rejected as 
improperly filed, and two subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also 
dismissed . The matter is now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or policy, and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at 
the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
As noted, this matter is before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. To provide context for the 
Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we have summarized the procedural history below: 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he would 
submit a brief and additional evidence within 30 days. The record does not show, and 
the Petitioner does not claim, that he submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), 
which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the Petitioner 
addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(]). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in filing. 
2 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations make no provision for a petitioner to 
appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking both 
to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new evidence 
in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 2019 
motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we also determined that 
the Petitioner had not overcome the summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion, concluding that he had not shown proper cause 
for reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's current motion includes two supporting exhibits: (1) a copy of our February 2, 2021 
decision dismissing his third combined motion; and (2) correspondence from the U.S. Postal Service 
providing proof of delivery of his first combined motion at the USCIS designated filing location on 
January 29, 2019, a delivery date that has never been in dispute. Neither the Petitioner's brief nor 
these evidentiary exhibits introduce new facts to the record that could change the outcome of our 
previous decision. 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening 
the proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the current motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must demonstrate that our 
immediate prior decision (issued February 2, 2021, relating to the Petitioner's third combined motion), 
contained errors of fact, law, or policy that affected the outcome of the decision.1 In that decision, we 
made the following determinations: 
• The Petitioner did not meet the requirements for a motion to reopen because he did not 
introduce new facts to the record or submit new evidence that could establish his eligibility for 
the requested benefit at the time of filing; 
• The Petitioner did not establish that our July 2020 decision contained errors of fact, law, or 
policy. He alleged that we erred in summarily dismissing his appeal, but he did so by failing 
to differentiate between his September 2018 appeal filing and his January 2019 motion filing, 
which were separate proceedings that were dismissed by our office for different reasons; and 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
3 
• The Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in summarily dismissing the original appeal 
and without such a showing, we need not reach his arguments that the Director erred by 
denying his immigrant petition. 2 
In the present motion, proper consideration is limited to these issues. In his brief: the Petitioner does 
not assert that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our decision dismissing his third 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Instead, he repeatedly argues that we should have deemed 
his appeal of the Director's decision to be timely filed, and that we should have adjudicated the appeal 
on its merits, rather than dismissing it based on a procedural defect caused by the delivery courier. 
Although the Petitioner cites to caselaw in support of his claim that his appeal should have been 
deemed timely filed, we emphasize that we did not dismiss the Petitioner's September 2018 appeal 
because it was untimely. The Petitioner filed a timely appeal in September 2018. However, he did 
not, at that time, identify any specific grounds for the appeal. Instead, he made the general statement 
that the denial contained unspecified errors which the Petitioner would address in a brief: to follow 
within 30 days. The record does not contain any timely supplemental brief from the Petitioner, and 
the Petitioner does not claim to have submitted one. We summarily dismissed the appeal because it 
did not identify an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as a basis for the appeal. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The Petitioner's only untimely filing was the first combined motion to reopen and reconsider filed in 
January 2019. We previously exercised our discretion to excuse the late filing of this motion to reopen 
in our decision dated July 2020. However, we determined that the January 2019 motion, when considered 
on its merits, did not cure the deficiencies in the Petitioner's September 2018 appeal. Specifically, the 
Petitioner's January 2019 motion did not include evidence that he had submitted a brief or 
supplemental evidence in support of his appeal or otherwise establish that our summary dismissal of 
the appeal was incorrect. Therefore, that motion did not provide proper cause for reopening his appeal. 
The Petitioner's remaining arguments on motion relate to the merits of his immigrant petition and his 
belief that the Director erroneously denied that petition. As we explained in our February 2021 
decision, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's denial decision was in 
the appeal filed in September 2018 and the record reflects that he did avail himself of this opportunity 
when he filed his appeal. Absent evidence that we summarily dismissed his appeal in error, we need 
not reach the merits of his petition here. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. Rather, the 
Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope of this 
fourth motion. The Petitioner has not overcome our determination that summary dismissal was the 
2 We nevertheless briefly addressed the Petitioner's claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, observing that the record does not support his assertion that 
he enjoys the required sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
proper, and required, outcome when presented with an appeal that contained no specific allegations of 
error in fact or law. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643826 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 14, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she intends to continue working 
in her area of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider all of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
From age 16, the Petitioner performed in I I 1mder the stage names l I' and, later, i I' 
(sometimes spelled I I). Her introductory statement indicates that she "recorded and released 
several single songs and albums," but the record includes little information and evidence about those 
recordings. In 2016, she co-createdl I described as a "national musical Internet project ... about 
women's life, rights and discrimination inl I' which evolved into a stage musical,□ The 
Petitioner entered the United States in 2019 as a B-2 nonimmigrant. The Petitioner states that she intends 
to continue singing and recording, and to write songs for others, establish a production company, and 
open a children's music school. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the criteria, numbered (iv). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other six claimed criteria, but she only specifically addressed 
two of the criteria, numbered (iii) and ( vii). Because the Petitioner makes no specific allegation of error 
regarding the criteria numbered (i), (v), (viii), and (xi), we consider those issues to be abandoned.1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. At(v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
2 
We note the Petitioner's assertion that she "will submit additional argument and supporting evidence 
within 30 days," but more than eight months later, the record contains no further submission from the 
Petitioner. We therefore consider the record to be complete. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, numbered (iv) 
and (vii) (relating, respectively, to participation as a judge and to artistic display). Below, we will 
discuss the other claimed criterion that the Petitioner discusses on appeal. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from various publications. In the denial notice, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish that these articles appeared in qualifying publications. On 
appeal, the Petitioner only addresses articles that appeared in the magazine! I and thereby 
abandons previous claims regarding other publications. 
The senior editor ofl I calls the publication the "First Women's Magazine of~I ---~ 
comparable to Cosmopolitan in the United States. She asserts that cover stories in three issues featured 
the Petitioner. The Petitioner submits translated printouts of two of the cover articles, published 
respectively in the I I 2010 andl ]2012 issues of that magazine. 
In a separate letter, the editor asserts that the magazine publishes 4000 print copies per month, and that 
its website attracts more than 1.1 million unique users per year -on average, nearly 100,000 per month. 
But the Petitioner provides no objective source for these figures. The Petitioner has also submitted a 
website analysis from SimilarWeb, showing substantially lower figures. That analysis indicates that the 
website received about 21,200 "total visits" in September 2016 (the most recent month for which data 
was provided). The "total visits" figure would be higher than the count of unique visitors, because repeat 
visitors would add to the count every time they visited the site. The Petitioner does not address this 
significant disparity, and the senior editor does not cite an objective source for the much higher web trafiic 
figure claimed in the letter. We cannot afford significant evidentiary weight to the editor's assertions. 
The Petitioner does not provide specific site visit figures for other publications to allow a direct 
· son, but the imilar eb analysis shows rankings. I I's site has a "Global Rank" of 
and a of 1735. In the category of "Arts and Entertainment -Visual," the site ,------L~-----' ranking is .__ _ _, 
On appeal[ the Petitioner asserts that Aquarelle ranks among "the most popular cultural media in I as "a well-known forum for discussion and awards of well-known individuals as well as 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). See also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 
1989) (stating that passing references to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed 
abandoned). 
3 
people of significant public interest." Key evidence submitted in support of these claims, however, 
consists of the publisher's own promotional materials, or third-party commentary that relies on those 
promotional materials. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the criterion relating to published 
material. The Petitioner has documented some degree of media coverage in I I but has not 
established that this coverage meets the regulatory requirements. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining issue, concerning 
continued work in the field, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this 
issue.2 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
It is perhaps significant that, while the Petitioner claimed to satisfy seven of the ten evidentiary criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she did not claim to satisfy 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), "evidence of 
commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, 
compact disk, or video sales." A performing artist is not required to satisfy this particular criterion, 
but it is the only criterion that specifically mentions the performing arts, and the burden is on the 
Petitioner to explain how she reached the top of her field and achieved sustained acclaim without 
selling substantial numbers of recordings or concert tickets in relation to other singers nationally or 
internationally. Letters in the record indicate that she consistently ranks highly in unspecified "charts," 
but such claims have negligible weight without supporting documentary evidence. 
With respect to the Petitioner's career as a recording artist, the record indicates that recordings of 
individual songs have won popularity contests based on frequency of radio airplay, but the record 
contains little other evidence about the Petitioner's recorded work. A magazine article from 2010 
indicates that she has released three albums, but the record contains minimal information about these 
albums, and no documentation about them. The Petitioner submits a letter from a producer who states 
that he produced an album calledl I about which the record is otherwise silent 
except for a certificate from the I k which states the title as 
I 1. 
Letters in the record include other specific factual claims, such as a collaborator's assertion that the 
Petitioner won.__ __ ~ ____ ___.in 2014 and again in 2017, and a former teacher's assertion that 
she performed a sold-out concert at thel I Given the nature of 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
such claims, documentary evidence ought to be readily available, but the record contains no such 
documentation. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has achieved some degree of recognition in her field in I I but it does not consistently show that she has reached the top of that field and attained 
sustained acclaim as the regulations require. Apart from the uncorroborated claims discussed above, 
we note that the Petitioner submits printouts from her Y ouTube channel. The printouts show the 
number of views for 16 videos, all marked as being five or six years old. Eleven of those view counts 
are below 500. The Petitioner provides no basis for comparison with other singers inl I to 
show that her view counts are among the highest in her field. Average view counts for I I 
videos on another channel are somewhat higher, in the low thousands, but again these figures lack 
context in the absence of any comparative evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record indicates that 
the Petitioner achieved some success and visibility in her field, but the evidence submitted is not of a 
caliber that clears the very high threshold for eligibility under the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17774594 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tax accountant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and was among the small percentage of those at 
the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was a vice chair and international tax partner witH'--------' 
where he indicates that he has been em Joyed in several positions for more than 30 years. He earned 
an MBA from the Universit in 2017, and also holds degrees from the University._! __ ___. 
and the University ~----~ The Petitioner states that if his petition is granted, he intends to 
open his own international tax consulting firm in I I focusing on Chinese-owned 
technology companies in the area. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him and his work, his 
authorship of scholarly articles in his field, and his leading role for distinguished organizations. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to his high remuneration 
in relation to others in the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director's conclusions regarding his leading roles for the~------~andl I as 
well as his authorship of scholarly articles in the business field. However, as will be briefly discussed 
below, upon review we do not agree that the record includes published material about the Petitioner 
relating to his work, and we conclude that the evidence is sufficient to show that his remuneration is 
significantly in relation to others in his field. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to establish that they meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the evidence meet each 
of its elements, which in part require both that the published material be about them and that it relates 
2 
to their work in the field for which classification is sought. Here, the Petitioner initially submitted 
several articles in which he is quoted regarding tax and international business issues, which include 
articles published in The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and South China Morning Post. In 
responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), which stated that none of the articles 
submitted were about him, the Petitioner argued that since the nature of his work is to provide tax 
advice, "which invariably includes his views and opinions," all of these articles met the plain language 
of this criterion. Although the Director ultimately concluded that the evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion was sufficient, he did not provide an analysis of this evidence in his decision. 
As noted above, each of the articles in the record includes at least one sentence in which the Petitioner 
provides his expert opinion regarding the subject of the article. The article appearing in the Wall Street 
Journal, for example, is about the acquisition by Chinese companies of companies in other countries, 
and includes a statement from the Petitioner about such deals with which he is involved. Although he 
and his employer are identified, this material is not about him. Even articles which consist almost 
entirely of interviews of the Petitioner, which appeared in the South China Morning Post and on the 
website of the.__ ______________ _, similarly identify him and his employer, but 
do not include details about his career history or accomplishments. Instead, these materials are about 
the Chinese tax system and infrastructure investments, respectively, and thus do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Accordingly, we 
disagree with the Director's conclusion and withdraw that part of his decision. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantZv high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
Initial evidence of the Petitioner's remuneration consisted of a letter from I which stated 
that his total after-tax income from June 2017 to May 2018 was HK$ 12,224,019, and that his 
"drawing" in the period from June 2018 through February 2019 was HK$ 568,000 per month. In 
addition, to demonstrate that this remuneration was significantly high in relation to others in his field, 
the Petitioner submitted two salary surveys showing annual salaries for what he asserts are similar 
positions in his field of between HK$ l million and HK$ 2 million. However, we note that the Robert 
Walters Salary Survey 2018 shows that in Hong Kong, the annual salary for a Managing Director in 
the "Investment Banking" category, which includes the Petitioner's field of mergers and acquisitions, 
ranges between HK$ 2.4 million to HK$ 4. 7 million. In addition, the Michael Page Hong Kong Salmy 
Benchmark 20 I 9 lists the annual salary range for the position of Regional Head of Tax in the "Back 
Office -Tax" category ranges between HK$ 2million and HK$ 3 million. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence of his earnings, 
including screen shots of his monthly earnings statements between July 201 7 and June 2019. These 
show his receipt of a monthly drawing of HK$ 484,666.67 each month under one employee number, 
and an additional monthly drawing of HK$ 83,333.33 in most months under a different employee 
number. These figures confirm those regarding the monthly salary from the initial letter, with an 
annual salary of about HK$ 6.8 million. In addition, he also submitted statements showing profit­
sharing payments of approximately HK$ 2.87 million in 2018 and HK$3.1 million in 2019. For 
purposes of comparison, a report from payscale.com indicated that the average salary for a partner in 
an accounting firm in Hong Kong was HK$ 3.7 million, with 75% earning less than HK$ 5 million. 
3 
This evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's salary was high, and his total remuneration 
significantly high, in relation to other similarly situated accounting professionals in 2018 and 2019. 
As such, we disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director did not conduct a proper final merits determination 
in his decision, because he only considered evidence submitted under the criteria he found that the 
Petitioner met, and analyzed this evidence in a piecemeal fashion without considering the totality of 
the record. We agree, as USCIS policy following the Kazarian decision clearly indicates that all of 
the evidence in the record should be considered together in this second part of the analysis. 1 We will 
therefore conduct a final merits analysis in accordance with this policy. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has spent almost his entire career with a single employer in 
China, although his resume indicates that he spent a brief period working in the United States for an 
affiliated office. He lists several roles he has played forl I including international tax 
partner and national mergers and acquisitions leader, and these titles are confirmed in media reports 
in which he is quoted for his expert opinion and elsewhere in the record. Although a letter from I !confirms that he currently holds the position ofl I for the company, the record 
does not include evidence explaining his duties in this role or any of the others he has held. We agree 
with the Director that this evidence is sufficient to show that he has played a leading role, but it does 
not describe his specific performance and achievements in this role forl I Vague 
statements that he has "interacted with senior business leaders, government officials and the media 
and press" and that he is "Hong Kong's top provider of professional advice and consulting services in 
both U.S. and China tax matters" are not sufficient to demonstrate how this work has elevated his 
status within the broader field of business, or his specialization in taxation. The Act requires 
"extensive documentation" that a petitioner's achievements have been recognized in the field, and the 
record regarding the Petitioner's achievements atl I does not meet that requirement. 
Whether as an official part of his duties withl lor not, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that he has written articles on Chinese and U.S. tax issues that were published in professional 
magazines and journals. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the submitted materials, published 
between 2013 and 2018, represent only his most recent published work, and that it was the Director's 
burden to request the submission of additional articles if he felt that the record was insufficient to 
support the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. We first note that it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). In addition, 
beyond acknowledging that the Petitioner's initial submission included evidence sufficient to meet the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Director's request for evidence (RFE) also reminded him 
that eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability is not established by meeting the minimum of 
three of the evidentiary criteria alone, and explained that the response should also show that he meets 
the high standards of the requested immigrant classification. Therefore, if he felt that evidence of the 
additional articles that he authored before 2013 would help to establish his eligibility, the Petitioner 
should have submitted that evidence. 
The evidence that is in the record includes several articles that the Petitioner co-authored with 
colleagues froml I published in magazines and journals including The Bulletin, 
Bloomberg BNA Tax Planning International Review, China Tax Intelligence and Tax Notes 
International. In his decision, the Director stated that some of these articles did not meet the relevant 
criterion, in particular those published in The Bulletin, and that the record lacked evidence that others 
in the field had cited to these articles. As pointed out on appeal, the Petitioner is not a researcher, and 
does not work in a field where authors of such material typically cite to each other's written works. 
However, the Petitioner's assertion that authorship of scholarly articles in his field is rare is not 
supported by evidence in the record, nor does he suggest an alternative means for measuring the extent 
to which the evidence of his published work supports his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
Further, the record does not include evidence about the publications in which these articles were 
published beyond the copies of the journal covers and articles. For instance, the covers of the editions 
of The Bulletin indicate that it is published and/or distributed by the 'l I 
.__ ________ _., but no information is provided regarding the circulation or readership of this 
magazine, or its prestige within the Chinese or international taxation community. Another article was 
published in a newsletter of the I I' which according to the website at the address printed on 
the cover is the '--------------------~ but the record does not include 
information about whether this newsletter would have influence or reach beyond the members of this 
organization. While the titles of some of the other publications suggest that they may have had a 
broader readership, and thus provided a wider platform for distribution of the Petitioner's views and 
expertise, again the record lacks such evidence. Thus, although the authorship of these articles shows 
the Petitioner's expertise in the area of international taxation, as well as a certain level of 
acknowledgment of that expertise by the editors and publishers of the journals in which they were 
published, it does not set him apart from his co-authors and others who are published in these and 
other media. Again, the Act requires extensive documentation of recognition in a petitioner's field, 
and the evidence of the Petitioner's published work does not rise to that level. 
In addition to this evidence of materials authored by the Petitioner, the record also includes the 
previously discussed evidence of published materials which include quotations from him on issues of 
taxation, investment and mergers and acquisition. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the interview 
of him on twd !segments and his contributions to articles in The New York Times, Wall Street 
Journal and South China Morning Post, among others, "automatically places him in an elite category 
at the top of his field in Hong Kong." We acknowledge that the appearance of his expert opinions, in 
most cases brief snippets among those of others, in well-known media such as these shows that his 
expertise in his field is acknowledged and sought after. However, even if this statement was proven 
5 
to be correct, this does not accurately reflect the requirements for eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability, as placement at the very top of the field of endeavor is not limited by geography. 
Although the single articles from The New York Times and Wall Street Journal, and the two interviews 
in segments aired o~ I suggest that the Petitioner's expertise has been recognized beyond the 
borders of Hong Kong and even China, much of the remainder of the evidence consists of articles 
published in primarily locally focused media, such as the South China Morning Post, or in media about 
which little or no information exists in the record, such as two articles in a magazine identified in its 
header as A Plus. The totality of this evidence does not help to show that the Petitioner has received 
acclaim for his expertise at the national or international level over a sustained period. 
Likewise, the evidence of the Petitioner's salary and total remuneration in 2018 and 2019, together 
with the salary surveys and other evidence, demonstrates that in those years he was compensated at a 
rate that is significantly higher than average, but does not show that he has consistently been 
compensated at a rate which would place him amongst those at the top of his field. In addition, the 
evidence showing that the Petitioner was named as one of several tax experts in Hong Kong in 
International Tax Review's .__ _______ ___, in 2009 does not set him apart from others so 
named, or from those taxation experts who work in other parts of the world. 
Other than his work for, and associated with 
of his long-time service with the 
several roles most recent! as it the Petitioner also submitted evidence 
m 
A letter from .__ __ ___, 
.__ ________________ ~of the organization, describes the Petitioner's work as 
a board member for more than twenty years, including his involvement with it~ I main source 
of revenue, and his service on several committees including the finance and audit committee. This 
evidence shows that he has served as an effective leader for this well-know~ I organization, 
but the Petitioner does not suggest or establish that this work has brought him acclaim in the 
international tax community, or that any recognition for this work extends beyond thq I 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, after analysis 
of the totality of the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16169597 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner writes fiction and non-fiction under a variant of his legal name.1 In addition to nonfiction 
essays b)og posts and short stories the Petitioner bis written two novels, one of~which,lwith the title I _ resulted in his prosecution i under public 
decency laws. His conviction and imprisonment in 2015 drew si nificant international attention. The 
Petitioner also worked as an editor at the ma azme The Petitioner is a fellow at the I I at the University of~------~ 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), pertaining to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
published material about the individual in professional or major media; and participation as a judge of 
the work of others. The Petitioner claims to satisfy a fourth criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
relating original contributions of major significance, but we need not reach a conclusion on this claim 
in order to proceed to the final merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, the Petitioner must demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish the necessary sustained acclaim. The 
Director cited two factors in support of this conclusion. Firstly, regarding the explicit nature of some 
1 Many record materials show the name I t but there is no indication that the Petitioner uses this name on legal 
identification documents. 
2 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
of the Petitioner's writings, the Director stated that "such material is common in the United States and 
does not demonstrate that the petitioner is one of that small percentage who has risen to the top of the 
field." The Petitioner, however, had not claimed that his choice of subject matter or his use of explicit 
language placed him at the top of the field. The above observation, therefore, is not a valid basis for 
denying the petition. 
Secondly, the Director concluded that letters written in support of the petition "describe the petitioner's 
work in terms of social and political activism, which is not a field of endeavor under this visa 
classification." This is, at best, an incomplete summary of the submitted letters, many of which discuss 
the literary and artistic merit of the Petitioner's fiction, as well as the quality and impact of his journalism. 
For the reasons explained above, the Director's discussion of these issues does not suffice as a final merits 
determination. We will therefore withdraw the denial decision based on that analysis, and remand the 
matter for a new decision, taking the issues below into account. 
The record shows that the Petitioner rose to international prominence when his imprisonment made him 
a potent symbol for advocates of freedom of speech and of the press. The key issue is whether the 
Petitioner has earned acclaim as an extraordinary writer, separate from the attention that attended his 
prosecution. Publicity for one's circumstances is not the same as acclaim for one's achievements. 
The Director was correct in observing that the petition relies heavily on letters newly writtr spectfically 
to support the petition. Some of the letters suggest that the Petitioner was well-known in before 
his prosecution, which could rise to the level of national acclaim and thereby qualify him for the 
classification he seeks. But such a conclusion would require direct, contemporaneous evidence, rather 
than new letters claiming that the Petitioner has been well-known for years. 
The value of such letters lies in giving perspective and context to the other evidence in the record; they 
cannot fully take the place of that evidence. The letters include several claims of fact for which objective, 
primary evidence ought to exist. These claims may be true, but they have minimal weight without 
corroborating evidence. 
For instance, an associate professor a~ !University who translated I I into English asserts 
that he has "been following [the Petitioner's] work for more than ten years," and has used that work in 
"numerous peer-reviewed articles, conference papers, book chapters, and interviews" during that time. 
But he does not identify or submit these works. If the Petitioner's work was the subject of scholarly 
commentary before 2015, then those materials ought to be available for submission and consideration. 
Likewise! I was not the Petitioner's first novel. The record indicates he published! I in 
2007. Contemporary evidence such as reviews and comparative sales figures could help to establish 
recognition as a novelist, outside of the context of the controversy surrounding! I 
Evidence of the Petitioner's pre-2015 career as a journalist could also shed valuable light on the 
Petitioner's reputation and recognition. 
3 
The Director did not issue a request for evidence to give the Petitioner an opportunity to fill this critical 
gap in the record. Instead, the Director issued a notice of intent to deny the petition, which serves a 
different function (to notify a petitioner of potentially disqualifying information). 
Therefore, we will remand the matter so that the Director may ( 1) issue a request for information to allow 
the Petitioner an opportunity to produce documentary evidence that predates his prosecution, thereby 
demonstrating that he did not rise to public attention only because his work was deemed to run afoul of I llaws; and (2) render a new final merits determination that more fully considers the totality of 
the record. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The final merits determination in the original decision was deficient in that it focused on peripheral 
issues. Also, several letters in the record include claims which, if true, may warrant approval of the 
petition, but the Director did not provide the Petitioner with an adequate opportunity to supplement 
the record with evidence to corroborate those claims. 
As the matter will be remanded, the Director should request any additional evidence deemed warranted 
and allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence within a reasonable period of time. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17756172 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior quality assurance associate working in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish, 
as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as a Quality Assurance Associate III with a 
,__ _____ _. contract development and manufacturing comp n m he biopharmaceutical 
industry. The Petitioner received a bachelor of pharmacy degree fro College of Pharmacy 
in 2002 and,>J..l,l..l.!.l.2l,<.l.l..!J.~.u:.....l..l..!.1.1..1..L1~!o<l.L""" post-graduate program i .__ ____ ____.industry regulatory 
affairs at the India, and a master of business administration at the University 
of.__ _______ _. She has approximately 15 years of professional expenence m the 
pharmaceutical industry, including eight years wittj I 
in India. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she could meet four of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her field 
and her performance in leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
We will not disturb the Director's conclusions with respect to these two criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director did properly evaluate the evidence she submitted in support of her 
claim that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to 
others in her field. We will address this criterion below. 
2 
The Petitioner's arguments on appeal are limited to the issue of whether the previously submitted 
evidence was sufficient to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). She states in the 
"Conclusion" section of her appellate brief that she has made original scientific contributions of major 
significance in accordance with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, she does not 
otherwise raise this issue or challenge the Director's reasons for concluding that she did not satisfy 
this criterion; she merely mentions it in passing. Issues or claims that are not raised with specificity on 
appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009 See 
Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. 
City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references to issues 
are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has commanded a 
high salary, or significantly high total remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field 
working in similar positions and geographic locations. 1 
The Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on her earnings as a senior scientist for!._ __ _. 
.__ _______________ __, in India. She provided documentation of her earnings, in 
Indian rupees (INR), during the period from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013. 
In a cover letter accompanying her initial evidence, the Petitioner stated that her "total remuneration" 
in 2012 was INR 964,212. The Petitioner provided a copy of her Form ITR-1, Indian Income Tax 
Return for the 2013-14 assessment year. This form indicates at line 1 that her "Income from 
Salary/Pension" was INR 620,926, and identifies her employer as '----------~ 
The Petitioner also submitted a document identified as a "Tax Planner for the Month of February 
2013" summarizing her remuneration from.__ _________ _. The document provides a 
breakdown of her basic pay and other payments made by her employer between April 2012 and March 
2013. It reflects that she received monthly "basic pay" of INR 29,992 and other recurring monthly 
payments that amounted to INR 41,025 (including a house rent allowance, a superannuation 
allowance, a conveyance allowance and rent paid). In addition, the "Tax Planner" has a gross income 
calculation that includes the items noted above, plus "gratuity receipts," "taxable LTA," leave salary, 
a performance bonus, award(s) and "medical domestic rec'd." The document lists a "gross income 
before exemption" figure of INR 873,194, 2 a list of exemptions, and a "rounded gross total income" 
figure of INR 620,926. 
1 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (noting that it is the petitioner's burden 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
2 This figure is the sum of all the items listed above, except for the "rent paid" figure, which according to this document is 
"data only for information." 
3 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided two additional Indian 
tax forms (Form No. 12BA and Form No. 16), which both indicate the amount paid to her byl I I I for the 2013-14 assessment year as INR 873,194. 
The Petitioner provided comparative salary data from several sources in support of her claim that she 
commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to others in her field in 2012. 
This evidence included a screenshot from Payscale.com with 2018 country-wide salaries for the 
occupation of"Analytical Methods Development Scientist" in India. This evidence indicates a median 
salary ofINR 576,112, an average salary ofINR 674,074, and a 90th percentile salary ofINR 930,000. 
The information is based on data reported by 26 individuals in India. 
The Petitioner also submitted February 2020 data from Glassdoor.com for the position of "Analytical 
Chemist" in India. This document indicates that the average base pay for this occupation is INR 
574,367. Finally, the Petitioner submitted information from Indeed.com for the occupations of Senior 
Analytical Chemist and Analytical Chemist which she stated is an "equivalent position to an analytical 
scientist." This evidence indicates an average monthly salary of INR 17,628 per month for "Senior 
Analytical Chemist" with a range between INR 8,000 and 42,000. For the position of "Analytical 
Chemist," Indeed.com indicates an average salary of INR 20,663, with salaries ranging from INR 
8,000 to 51,000. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again emphasizes that her "total remuneration" for her role as a Senior 
Scientist atl I in 2012 was INR 964,212. She asserts that "[i]n Buletini v. INS, 
860 F. Supp. 1222 (1994), the court found that the beneficiary, an Albanian physician, who earned 
'twice the average salary of other Albanian doctors' in Albania to qualify as sufficient evidence to 
meet this criterion." The Petitioner maintains that the AAO has affirmed the standard upheld in 
Buletini in our unpublished decisions. 3 She states that the submitted salary surveys establish that her 
earnings in 2012 were approximately double the earnings of persons in her field in India, even when 
compared to salaries reported in 2018-2020. 
After reviewing all the submitted evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
she satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner maintains that her "total 
remuneration" was INR 964,212 in 2012, but this figure does not appear on the Petitioner's Indian tax 
documentation or employer-issued tax planning document. The figure of INR 873,194 reported on 
the Petitioner's Indian Form No. 16, includes non-salary remuneration, such as rent and conveyance 
allowances and medical coverage payments. As noted, this figure also includes "gratuity receipts," a 
"superannuation allowance," and a "special allowance." The Petitioner's "basic pay" during the tax 
year in question was INR 29,992 which equates to an annual base salary of approximately INR 
360,000.4 
3 For example, she provides a copy of an unpublished decision issued in 2017, in which we noted that we did not contest 
the Buletini court's finding that USCTS "must intend that the salary of the [petitioner] be judged in relation to others who 
are in comparable circumstances." 
4 The record reflects that the Petitioner last received her monthly "basic pay" from! lin December 
2012 and indicates that she relocated to the United States in January 2013. After she left the company, in February 2013. 
it appears that she was paid for leave (INR 101,973) and received a "gratuity receipts" payment ofINR 149,962. 
4 
While it appears that other payments beyond her "basic pay" were included in the INR 620,926 figure 
reported on the Petitioner's tax return for the 2013-14 year, it is unclear whether, or to what extent, 
the comparative salary surveys she provided from Glassdoor, Payscale and Indeed included non­
salary income. None of these sources indicates that the figures reported reflect "total remuneration" 
paid to employees. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her salary is high or 
that her total "remuneration" is significantly high in relation to others. Demonstrating that her total 
remuneration is high compared to the average base salaries in the field does not suffice. 
The information from Payscale indicates an "average salary" of INR 674,074 for an "analytical 
methods development scientist" as of 2018. The Petitioner's basic salary for the 2012-13 year was 
lower than this figure, and no comparative data from 2012 has been provided. The income figure 
reported on her Indian tax return was closer to this 2018 "average salary," but again, we cannot 
determine what types of employer payments, if any, beyond base salary were included in Payscale's 
average figure. The Petitioner's claim that she earned nearly double the average salary data reported 
by Payscale is not adequately supported by the record. 
We have also reviewed the average monthly salary information for the occupations of "analytical 
chemist" and "sr. analytical chemist" provided by Indeed.com. Assuming that the figures provided 
by Indeed are base salary figures, we acknowledge that the Petitioner's basic monthly salary ofINR 
29,992 was higher than the average figures reported for an analytical chemist (INR 20,663) and for a 
senior analytical chemist (INR 17,628). However, the same survey reports a high salary of INR 51,000 
for the analytical chemist position, which is significantly higher than the Petitioner's documented base 
salary. There is insufficient evidence to establish that her salary was high, or that her total 
remuneration was significantly high, when compared to others employed as senior scientists during 
the relevant period. An above-average salary does not necessarily equate to a "high salary" for 
purposes of satisfying this criterion. 
Finally, the information the Petitioner provided from Glassdoor indicates that "average base pay" for 
an analytical chemist in India (as of 2020) is INR 574,367 and the publisher indicates that it did not 
have sufficient information to provide a salary range that includes high salaries for this occupation. 
The publisher does not state that its "average base pay" figure includes non-salary compensation. The 
Petitioner's base pay in 2012 was INR 360,000, which is lower than the figure reported by Glassdoor. 
The information provided from this source does not allow us to compare the Petitioner's 2012 base 
pay or total remuneration to that of others working in her occupation in India during the same time 
period. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she has 
commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of 
her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18141694 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a legal consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification 
through evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or that she meets at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as an attorney and legal consultant for several years in her native~I --~ 
and holds a Ph.D. in public and constitutional law from the University I I At the time of filing 
she was pursuing a degree in business administration at I I Community College in Michigan. 
She initially indicated that she wished to pursue an academic research position in the United States, 
but in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) submitted a letter from a private law firm 
expressing interest in employing her as an attorney advisor. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her membership in associations in her field and her 
authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to original contributions of major significance to her field. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's decision in part, but withdraw his conclusion 
regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations in her field. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
As stated in the Director's RFE, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show membership in 
an association, that that association is in their field of expertise, that it requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, and that those achievements are judged to be outstanding by recognized 
2 
experts. Here, the Petitioner asserts that her membership in the International Society of Public Law, 
or ICON-S, qualifies under this criterion.1 
Regarding her membership in this association, the Petitioner submitted evidence that she presented 
papers at ICON-S conferences in 2014 and 2015, and also attended a 2016 conference. Although this 
is not direct evidence of her membership, we acknowledge that, in general, those who present papers 
at professional and academic conferences are members of the association holding the conference. 
Turning to the requirement of outstanding achievements for members element, the Petitioner referred 
to the association's website and provided a list of short biographies of TCON-S members who had 
been voted onto the association's council, asserting that these individuals are responsible for judging 
memberships to ICON-S. However, although the website referred to in her RFE response2 does list 
the names and positions of these individuals, and all appear to be experts in the field of law, the 
webpage makes no mention of their involvement in the judging of membership applications. In 
addition, the record does not include evidence of what the association's membership requirements are, 
despite the Director's explicit request in his RFE. 3 As the Petitioner has not established that the 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by national or international 
experts in their fields, we disagree with the Director and withdraw his finding that she meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance.4 Here, the Petitioner asserts that her Ph.D. thesis is an original contribution 
to the field of law, and that several reference letters in the record show its major significance to that 
field. 
The first such letter was written b~ lwho indicates that he is an advisor to the Supreme 
Court ofl I and has known the Petitioner since 2004 as a law school classmate. 5 He states that 
he has read the Petitioner's thesis, and describes it as "a very distinguished study" which "provides 
many thoughtful insides [sic] in the I I comparative constitutional law." However, he does not 
elaborate on which insights in the thesis he feels are valuable, nor does he state that they have been of 
any significance to the field of law. 
1 While the Petitioner also submitted evidence of her membership in other associations, she explained in her response to 
the Director's RFE that this evidence "is only to demonstrate that even after coming to the U.S., I have continued to study 
and be recognized as an excellent student and leader in the U.S." We will therefore not consider this evidence in evaluating 
her qualification under this criterion. 
2 https://www.icon-society.org/govemance/council-elections/, accessed on July 15, 2021. 
3 A different page on the association's website explains its membership requirements, which consist of filling out an 
electronic form and paying an annual membership fee. https://www.icon-society.org/join/, accessed on July 15, 2021. 
4 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
5 All reference letters in the record have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Another reference letter was written by~-------- who teaches at thel I School 
for Magistrates and is a former Deputy Minister of Justice. He writes that he mentored the Petitioner 
in her legal studies, and was part of her dissertation committee. In addition to noting that she scored 
97 out 100 points for her dissertation, he states that she has "an original style of writing and has 
impressed me with her strong legal logic."6 I I further writes that the Petitioner is 
"trustworthy, honest, and good moral," and notes her participation in a conference in New York. But 
he does not indicate that her thesis has contributed to the field of law by having an influence or impact 
on the work of others, or that it is otherwise of major significance. 
~----------------' Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the.__ _______ --! 
indicates in her letter that she "has had the chance to read some of [the Petitioner's] papers and her 
research skills are admirable." She goes on to write that she considers the conclusions in the 
Petitioner's thesis to be "unique and interesting," and that she has "taken [them] into consideration for 
my own research." However) ldoes not explain which of the Petitioner's conclusions are 
unique and interesting or in what way they are unique and interesting. In addition, she does not 
describe her own research, or how she has applied the Petitioner's work to expand upon that research. 
Other letters in the record are complimentary of the Petitioner's intellectual capabilities, 
professionalism, and personal characteristics, and generally recommend her as a talented lawyer. Two 
of the letters praise her job performance with two private law firms, and another indicates that she was 
a successful student during her legal studies. None of them provide a detailed description of her Ph.D. 
thesis, its contribution to the field of law, or how it has been of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes several arguments to support her assertion that the Director did not 
give sufficient weight to the reference letters. In particular, she challenges his citation to Matter of 
Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988), asserting that the Director improperly 
referenced this decision and failed to consider this expert testimony. In addition, she urges us to 
consider the credentials of the letter writers, noting that they are top experts in the field of law. 
We have thoroughly reviewed these letters, and all of the evidence in the record, per our de nova 
review. While we do not question the credibility or qualifications of the writers, the letters they have 
written do not provide more than a brief and shallow description of the Petitioner's work, despite the 
fact that two of the writers identify themselves as members of her dissertation committee. Reference 
letters that do not specifically identify contributions or provide specific examples of how those 
contributions influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 
2009) affd in part 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). In 2010, the Kazarian court reiterated that the 
AAO's conclusion that the "letters from physics professors attesting to [the petitioner's] contributions 
in the field" were insufficient was "consistent with the relevant regulatory language." 596 F.3d at 
1122. Here, references to "conclusions" and "insights" without further detail are not sufficient to 
describe the nature of the contribution the thesis has made to the field. 
6 On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not consider the full text of this letter, and provides a quotation that 
she asserts was written byl I However, the letter in the record does not include the majority of that quoted 
language, nor does it appear in any of the other reference letters. 
4 
In addition, neither the reference letters or other evidence in the record demonstrates that her Ph.D. 
thesis has been impacted or influenced others in the field of law such that it is of major significance. 
While the Petitioner refers to Kazarian in suggesting that the Director imposed novel requirements 
when noting the lack of evidence of citations to the Petitioner's thesis and her other published work, 
the referenced language concerns the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Citations to a petitioner's 
published work, or other evidence that scholarly presentations or articles have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others in the field, are among the evidence that may be probative 
of the significance of contributions to a field of endeavor under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 As the record 
does not include such evidence, or other evidence pertaining to the significance of the Petitioner's 
contribution, we agree with the Director and find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes copies of articles authored by the Petitioner which have been published in peer­
reviewed journals or presented at professional conferences. We therefore agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 16, 2024 In Re: 31260820 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion and lifestyle blogger, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner satisfied the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification by demonstrating her receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to satisfy at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Specifically , the Director determined that the evidence 
demonstrates the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, performance in leading or 
critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and argues that the Director erred in finding she did not satisfy 
an additional eight criteria related to lesser awards; membership ; published material; judging; original 
contributions; display; high salary; and commercial successes. She asserts that the Director did not 
fully consider all the documentation submitted, including "articles about the Petitioner and other 
published material, recommendation letters, bank statements , tax declarations , etc." 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision with the comments below. See Matter of Burbano, 
20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting 
that the practice of adopting and affinning the decision below has been "universally accepted by every 
other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining 
eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as 
long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
As a preliminary matter, the Petitioner contends that the Director "failed to acknowledge that she is 
specifically an LGBT blogger, which sets her apart from other bloggers and establishes her as an 
extraordinary individual de facto." Again, the Petitioner seeks classification as a blogger in the fields 
of fashion and lifestyle. The Director did not limit the Petitioner's field of expertise to lifestyle and 
fashion blogging for members ofthe LGBT community. To hold otherwise would render meaningless 
the requirement that an individual be among the small percentage of the very top of their field by 
allowing a petitioner to narrow their field until they rank among the top ofa small group in that "field." 
See Buletini v. INS, 860 F.Supp. 1222, 1229 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (finding that the individual's field was 
medical science rather than nephrology). Thus, the Director correctly evaluated the documentation as 
it pertains to the Petitioner's field of expertise as a fashion and lifestyle blogger. 
In relation to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner contends the record does not support the Director's conclusions 
regarding the award and the Y ouTube Silver Creator award. 1 The 
Director determined that although materials from YouTube's parent company, Google, provide some 
information regarding the selection process for the award, the record does not sufficiently establish 
that the YouTube Silver Creator Award received in 2018 by the Petitioner's YouTube channel 
I Iis recognized nationally or internationally for excellence in the field of fashion or 
lifestyle blogging. Rather, the Director noted the documentation shows that Y ouTube channel owners 
"apply" for a Creator Award once they reach predetermined subscriber milestones such as 100,000 
(Silver), 1 million (Gold), 10 million (Diamond), and 100 million (Red Diamond). In addition, the 
Director noted the record indicated that I I was one of 24,000 channels that received the 
award, and over 300,000 channels eligible for it. 2 Further, the record does not show that You Tube 
Silver Creator award winners receive a level of media coverage associated with a nationally or 
internationally recognized award in the field. 
Regarding the __________ award, the Director determined that documentation from I I shows that the Petitioner received the award in 2018. Further, the Petitioner provided 
materials indicating that some media coverage, such as press releases on the online platforms vk.com 
and Facebook.com, reported on the background, nominees, and winners of the award. Although she 
demonstrated her receipt of a Award, the Petitioner did not show that 
the field of fashion and lifestyle blogging recognizes her __________ Award as a 
national or international award for excellence. The presented evidence, for instance, does not discuss 
or acknowledge her field's view of receiving a __________ Award to reflect its 
national or international recognition for excellence. 
1 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on her having been selected by www 
as one ofthe "TOP ofthe best bloggers in Russia" according to her Instagram account rating, and her receipt of a "verified 
badge" from Instagram. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the two awards mentioned above and does 
not address these additional two awards. 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (noting that relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting a prize or award was excellence in the field include: the criteria 
used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the 
number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors). 
2 
Pertaining to membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner maintains that 
she meets this criterion based on membership with Psychology for Human Rights (PHR), the Russian 
LGBT Network (RLN), and as an honorary member of the National Association ofBloggers (NAB). 
As the Petitioner acknowledges, the record describes PHR and RLN as LGBT rights organizations. 
Therefore, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's claimed membership in these organizations was 
not "membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought," which is fashion and 
lifestyle blogging. Further, the Director concluded that counsel's assertions that PHR and RLN "grant 
membership only to those bloggers who have a substantial following base on Instagram and who 
belong to the LGBT community" were not supported by a letter from O-R-, a representative of both 
organizations. 
Regarding NAB, the Petitioner submitted the association's bylaws reflecting that an honorary member 
of the association "can be recognized as a blogger recognized by the Council of the Association as 
exclusive in terms of content or artistic content of the blog content and/or for special services to the 
Association, the blogosphere or the audience." The Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how "being 'recognized' by the Council based on 'content' or 'special services to the 
Association' or greater community" reflects outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the NAB bylaws do not indicate that membership in the association requires 
outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts in the field. Further, the 
Director noted that although a letter from O-B-indicates that NAB requires such factors as "a high 
level of recognition in the field of blogging," "the highest popularity and engagement rates in the 
industry and their area of expertise," and "whether the influence they have will or did potentially 
change the world for better," these statements are broad and are not corroborated by any supporting 
evidence regarding NAB or its membership requirements. For the reasons the Director already 
explained, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), related to published material about the Petitioner in trade 
publications or other major media, the Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on a 
2021 article published by howtogreen.ru. 3 While the Director determined that this article is about the 
Petitioner and her work as a fashion and lifestyle blogger, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
howtogreen.ru is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium, such as through 
circulation statistics or other relevant data. The Petitioner seeks to rely on information from 
Similar Web, which indicates that howtogreen.ru has a ranking of 4,166 in the "Books and Literature" 
category in Russia. The Director found that the Petitioner did not explain the significance of the 
ranking and how such data supports a determination, as claimed, that this website qualifies as a "major 
trade publication" or "major media," by having a high circulation or distribution relative to other online 
publications. 4 Therefore, the Director found that the article does not meet all requirements for the 
published materials criterion. The Petitioner has not overcome the deficiencies the Director identified 
under this criterion. While the Petitioner urges she has shown that howtogreen.ru has 118K followers 
3 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on articles published by Oops.ru, Knife.media, 
SRSLY, NOZH, Wonderzine, Calvert Journal, and AVIASALES. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the 
howtogreen.ru article mentioned above and does not address any other publications. 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that in evaluating whether a submitted publication 
is a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
3 
on Instagram, the Petitioner does not demonstrate the significance or relevance of this number to 
establish the major status of the website. 
Regarding the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner's response to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE) provided a letter dated November 22, 2021, from T-B-, the organizer of 
the Top Blog competition, that states the Petitioner participated as a judge of "the semi-finals and the 
final round" of the Top Blog competition onl I2021. In the denial decision, the Director 
noted that the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(I). As she filed her petition in October 2021, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
judging occurred prior to or at the time ofher initial filing. Later, on motion, the Petitioner submitted 
an additional letter from T-B-asserting that the Petitioner's participation as a judge "actually 
commenced inl I2021" during "this initial phase of the competition," and "[i]n the semi­
final round of the competition .... she contributed to the selection process ...." 
The Director found insufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner actually participated as a judge 
in the competition. The Director found that there is an unexplained inconsistency between T-B-' s 
initial statement that the Petitioner served as a judge for one day inl 12021, and his second 
letter that indicates she served as a judge for unidentified dates inl and 2021. The record 
does not contain sufficient evidence from the competition's organizer clarifying in what stage or stages 
the Petitioner participated as a judge. For these reasons, the Director found T-B-' s letters alone are 
insufficient to verify the Petitioner's participation as a judge in the competition, and she has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Pertaining to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), in his motion 
decision, the Director found that although the Petitioner's creation of unique hashtags 
(# and # Iwas an original contribution, simply making contributions 
is not sufficient to meet this criterion unless the Petitioner shows those contributions have been majorly 
significant in the field. 5 The Director determined that letters and license agreements from four 
Instagram bloggers who used those hashtags do not demonstrate that her work has remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field. The Director acknowledged that contributions that "attracted 
significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original 
contribution to the field."6 Although the authors of the letters indicated how much they valued those 
licenses, the Director determined that evidence of four license agreements did not reflect significant 
attention or commercialization of the Petitioner's contributions. 7 The Petitioner did not show the 
impact of her contributions extended beyond those licensees who received financial benefits from her 
work to constitute a contribution of major significance in the overall field. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (evidence that the person's work was funded, patented, or 
published while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work 
is of major significance in the field). 
6 Id. 
7 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on business agreements with several brands to 
create user generated content for advertisements. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on license agreements 
with four Instagram bloggers and does address any other business agreements. 
4 
In relation to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
the Petitioner did not claim to meet this criterion within her initial submission or her RFE response. 
On motion, she claimed to satisfy this criterion based on publishing articles and videos on Instagram's 
and Y ouTube' s social media accounts. However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that any of these instances involves displaying her work products at artistic venues 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), related to high salary, the Petitioner provided a letter from her 
accountant and a bank statement showing that for the first nine months in 2021 (prior to the time of 
filing in October 2021) she received 7,060,590 RUB for her services as a blogger in Russia. 8 In 
addition, the Petitioner submitted materials from rbc.com that indicate that "on average" Russian 
bloggers earn between 200,000 and 650,000 RUB monthly, or between 2,400,000 and 7,800,000 RUB 
annually. Further, materials she provided from perfluence.net indicate that bloggers in Russia receive 
between 1,000,000 to 150,000,000 RUB annually. Therefore, the evidence show that the Petitioner's 
2021 earnings were above the average salary reported by rbc.com, but well below the high salary 
reported by perfluence.net. Therefore, the Director concluded that based on the documentation 
submitted the Petitioner had not established that she commanded a high salary in relation to others in 
the field based on her earnings in Russia. 
Pertaining to the commercial success criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), on appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains she meets this criterion based upon evidence that her Y ouTube channel 
"generated $26,510.28 for the period from January 26, 2023, to April 25, 2023." We note that the 
Petitioner has not established that her Y ouTube channel's claimed earnings establish eligibility at the 
time of filing her petition in October 2021. See 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(l). Nonetheless, the Director 
concluded that, even assuming that her occupation were within the field of the performing arts, the 
record does not include sufficient evidence of the sales associated with the Petitioner's blogging 
accounts/channels, and no evidence was provided identifying the Petitioner as having commercial 
successes relative to other performing artists. 
Finally, the Director noted that the Petitioner's motion filing contained a heading entitled, in part, 
"Comparable Evidence." The motion was accompanied by a narrative of the Petitioner's acclaim in 
the field and articles that mention that her Instagram account discusses LGBT life in Russia. The 
regulatory provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) provides petitioners the opportunity to submit 
comparable evidence to establish their eligibility, if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria 
described in the regulations do not readily apply to their occupation. When evaluating such 
comparable evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to 
the petitioner's occupation and, ifnot, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria 
listed in that regulation. Here, the Director found that the Petitioner submitted a declaration and 
articles without explaining which criterion or criteria do not apply to her occupation, and how the 
documentation is comparable in meeting a particular criterion or criteria. For these reasons, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the documentation submitted qualifies for the comparable evidence 
prov1s10n. 
8 The Petitioner also provided evidence of earnings for 2022 and 2023. However, because this criterion requires evidence 
that she "has commanded" a high salary in the past, the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing (October 
2021) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(1) and we have evaluated evidence that pre-dates the filing of the petition. 
5 
The Petitioner does not provide any new evidence or arguments which overcome the Director's 
determination regarding the above criteria. The Petitioner's appellate brieflists or references the same 
documentation and makes the identical arguments it presented in response to the Director's RFE, and 
on motion in response to the Director's denial decision. In fact, the Director's motion decision 
discussed the submitted evidence, addressed the arguments, and explained how the evidence did not 
show that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria relating to lesser awards; membership; published material; 
judging; original contributions; display; high salary; and commercial successes. The Petitioner does 
not explain how the Director erred as a matter oflaw, statement of fact, or evaluation of the evidence 
in any ofhis findings regarding the above criteria. Accordingly, for the reasons the Director discussed, 
and those explained above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets at least three criteria. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 16, 2024 In Re: 31221986 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a quality control engineer for a major automotive company who seeks classification 
as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act ( the Act) section 203 (b)( 1 )( A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not show that the totality of the evidence demonstrated his 
eligibility in a final merits determination. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears 
the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He made that demonstration before the Director, who decided that the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the criteria relating to judging, authorship of scholarly articles, and performing in a 
leading or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies one additional criterion, and his aggregate evidence 
establishes his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already 
shown he fulfills the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination below. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one ofthe small percentage at the very top ofthe field ofendeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers 
should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if 
a petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of 
the immigrant classification). 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in industrial engineering from a U.S. institution of higher education in 
2019, and he filed this petition in 2022. He specializes in chemically bonded sand systems utilizing 
specialized materials used in the foundry industry for casting metal molds. In this case, the molds are 
2 
utilized for vehicle parts. The Petitioner currently works as a quality control engineer for ___ 
As indicated above, the Petitioner judged others in his field, authored scholarly articles, and performed 
in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his overall personal and professional achievements rise to a level of a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Instead, it appears the Petitioner is a specialized industrial engineer at the outset of his career, 
who has demonstrated one achievement early in his professional journey. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner contends that he offered extensive documentation through 35 pieces of 
evidence consisting of approximately a dozen opinion letters, his publications, and letters from those 
in management at his current employer. On the issue of extensive evidence, the Petitioner states the 
Director failed to explain how the evidence in the form of opinion letters "does not constitute the 
requisite 'extensive evidence[.]' Indeed, in cases with much less evidence, the denial of an EB l A 
petition has been reversed or remanded. See e.g. Muni, supra at 444--45 (Error to find evidence 
including 'eight affidavits' of experts, was insufficient support for EBIA petition)." 
Regarding the Muni decision (Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444--45 (N.D. Ill. 1995)), that district court 
stated that the appellate authority had "completely ignored" the affidavits. By contrast, in the matter 
currently before us, the Director discussed several of the testimonial letters. As a result, it appears the 
manner in which the Petitioner relies on the Muni case is inapplicable to his own. Equally as important, 
in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of U.S. circuit courts of appeals, we are not 
bound to follow the published decision of a U.S. district court in matters arising even within the same 
district. See K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715, 719-20 (BIA 1993). 
And on the issue the Petitioner highlights in Muni pertaining to other cases with less evidence being 
reversed, the regulation repeatedly reflects that an eligibility determination on a benefit request will be 
based on information contained in the record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l0), (11), (14), 
( l 6)(i)-(ii). Each case must be decided on its own facts with regard to the sufficiency of the evidence 
presented. See, e.g., Matter ofH-C-R-C-, 28 I&N Dec. 809, 812 (BIA 2024). Throughout the USCIS 
Policy Manual, it repeatedly states that agency officers will adjudicate numerous case types on a 
"case-by-case basis," and that is the method we will utilize here. See, e.g, 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.5(D), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Or, stated differently. A determination on the facts properly rests 
on what is implicated within each particular record of proceeding. See Loper Bright Enterprises v. 
Raimondo, 144 S. Ct. 2244, 2277 (2024) (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (stating that "different facts and 
different legal arguments might dictate different outcomes"); Twitter, Inc. v. Taamneh, 598 U.S. 471, 
507 (2023) (Jackson, J., concurring) (stating: "Other cases presenting different allegations and 
different records may lead to different conclusions"). 
When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will 
not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to address 
every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. "Nothing is to be gained by a laundry-list recital of all 
evidence on the record supporting each view on every issue." Puerto Rico Mar. Shipping Auth. v. Fed. 
Mar. Comm 'n, 678 F.2d 327, 351 (D.C. Cir. 1982) (finding claims to be unpersuasive that a trier of fact 
"did not consider the evidence because it did not catalogue every jot and tittle oftestimony" or evidence). 
The lack of a direct discussion of factors does not mean that the Director ignored it; it instead may mean 
that they considered it and concluded it was unpersuasive. See United States v. Teixeira, 62 F.4th 10, 25 
3 
(1st Cir. 2023) (concluding a trier of fact is not required to articulate their conclusions as to every aspect 
of evidence when making an adjudication). 
Now to discuss the Petitioner's achievements and whether they measure up to what this immigrant 
classification requires. Aside from his contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner's 
remaining accolades are not adequate to rise to the level necessary to approve this petition. This can 
be inferred from the appeal brief that extensively discusses his contributions ofmajor significance, but 
regarding his remaining achievements he effectively only mentions that he satisfied the three 
additional regulatory criteria in step one of the adjudicative process. Here, the Petitioner does not 
advance substantive arguments describing how his experience judging, authoring scholarly articles, or 
performing in a leading or critical role should be considered in a final merits determination. 
We note the Director's request for evidence specifically sought evidence and commentary 
demonstrating his achievements place him among that small percentage who have risen to the very 
top of the field. "While a person may be stronger in one particular evidentiary area than in others, the 
totality of the evidence must establish that the person is extraordinary." See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(2). Below, we evaluate whether his arguments about his contributions of 
major significance are adequate to counterbalance his less persuasive remaining achievements in his 
favor. 
Regarding the Petitioner's judging experience, we agree with the Director's findings that although the 
Petitioner meets the plain language requirements of that criterion in step one, he has not shown that his 
experience is indicative of "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). As the Director noted, the Petitioner's judging performance has resulted in an 
insignificant amount of manuscript review in a single year. Even though the journal in which he was 
asked to perform peer review carries a certain level of prestige, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
two instances contribute to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or that this 
performance is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. 
Peer review is a routine element ofthe process by which articles are selected for publication in literary or 
scholarly journals or for presentation at literary conferences. Occasional participation in this process does 
not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international acclaim at the 
very top of his field. Without evidence setting the Petitioner apart from others in his field (e.g., evidence 
that he has received and completed independent requests for review from a substantial number ofjoumals 
or conferences, served in an editorial position for a distinguished journal, or chaired a technical committee 
for a reputable conference), we cannot conclude that he is among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. For instance, one reference letter author has served as 
Editor-in-Chief ofthe International Journal ofMetalcasting (IJMC), and another served as a reviewer of 
more than 60 articles or papers. Thus, their level of judging suggests that the Petitioner's limited peer 
review experience does not place him within the small percentage at the top of his field. 
Similar to the Petitioner's judging experience, his publication record falls far short ofthe standard required 
here. The Petitioner did not sufficiently explain how his limited publication record of: (1) authoring a 
few articles in American Foundry Society (AFS) Transactions, which features papers presented at the 
organization's annual meetings; or (2) authoring two papers in IJMC is consistent with having a career 
4 
of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. This is far less than those listed 
within some opinion letters who published well above 50 or 60 scholarly works. Such a limited 
publication record is not out ofthe ordinary considering the Petitioner completed his Ph.D. less than three 
years before he filed the petition and the letter authors' careers have spanned decades in the field. As the 
Director's decision noted, the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing the significance of his 
authorships or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the 
field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moving to his claims relating to his performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations, while the Petitioner claimed such a performance for two organizations, he only 
demonstrated one of those entities enjoyed a distinguished reputation. The Director decided his 
performance for his current employer was not commensurate with the type of acclaim that places him at 
the very top of his field of endeavor. In the appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's findings stating 
the Director "erroneously disregards or misapplies other evidence of Petitioner's extraordinary ability, 
including the ripple effect of his lead and/or critical role at These errors render its final merits 
analysis fatally flawed." 
As it relates to the Petitioner's role at he does not offer additional analysis to explain what evidence 
the Director might have disregarded or misapplied, nor does he offer more information on any ripple 
effects that his role at might have in the industry. He mostly discusses his leading and critical role 
fore=] as a form of contributions of major significance to the field, and we will consider those aspects 
in that context below. But as it stands, the role he occupies with his current employer is notable, but not 
indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise indicating that he is one 
ofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. The Petitioner does not explain how 
his performance for has somehow impacted the broader field of endeavor, nor does he expand on 
how the claimed-but unsubstantiated-ripple effects compare with those in the upper echelon of his 
field. 
Turning to the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance, his claims primarily relate to his 
research that led to "a methodology that for the first time allows for accurate and real time detection 
of casting defects that routinely occur in production due to the variations in the composition of sand 
during the casting process." We will first touch on that aspect and then we will address his claims 
relating to his work atl I 
Not only did the opinion letters the Petitioner offered describe his original research as a significant 
improvement over previous methodologies, but Professor I I included the statement 
that that the AFS has endorsed the Petitioner's testing protocols and they are included in the 
standardized protocols the AFS recommends to the entire U.S. casting industry through the AFS Mold 
and Core Test Handbook. The professor noted that inclusion in these standardized protocols has 
benefited the U.S. casting industry and industrial sector as a whole, as American foundries and 
factories are now implementing the Petitioner's methodology resulting in cost, time, and material 
savmgs. 
Professor! I statements are corroborated by other letters as well as some objective material 
in the record; for instance in the letter from Dr.I Ias well as in a letter from the director 
of an international alloy steel casting company. We conclude that as a whole, the evidence is sufficient 
5 
to demonstrate the Petitioner's quality control methodologies have been widely accepted and 
implemented, resulting in improved efficiencies, and have been sufficiently influential in the field that 
they satisfy the regulatory criterion in step one of this adjudicative process. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director failed to consider the letters he submitted. As it pertains 
to the Petitioner's contributions, the only letter he names or discusses in the appeal is the correspondence 
from I I Principal Consultant at A review of Mr. I I 
letter reveals that he offers extensive analysis relating to each ofthe relevant regulatory criteria pertaining 
to this immigrant classification. Mr. I I describes how the Petitioner's achievements meet each 
criterion's requirements and proclaims he is a foreign national who clearly qualifies as one with 
extraordinary ability. 
But when describing his credentials, Mr. I ldoes not indicate that his expertise lies in any area 
associated with the immigration laws ofthe United States. While those authoring opinion letters are free 
to express their perspective, the decision ofwhether the evidence satisfies the requirements ofa regulation 
or meets the burden ofproof lies with USCIS. See Matter ofCaron International, 19 T&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988) (finding that the appropriate entity to determine eligibility is USCIS); see also Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (2012). We will therefore evaluate his letter as it describes 
the Petitioner's achievements and what impact those accomplishments have caused in the field. 
Mr. I !discusses the Petitioner's development of a new quality control protocol that largely mirrors 
Professor! !account. He further states that the Petitioner became known in the field swiftly 
in what appears to be Mr.I I acknowledgment that this foreign national is in the early stages of 
his career. As the remainder ofthe letters in the record express much ofthe same as Mr. I I letter, 
it is unnecessary that we offer extensive analysis of them here. It is sufficient to say that each of them 
describes the adoption of the Petitioner's methodology in the AFS Mold and Core Test Handbook as 
influential throughout the industry. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that his casting quality control methodology has facilitated 
development of its novel and influential I !production. However, the Petitioner does not 
indicate, nor does the evidence support, that he was responsible for creating the I !process at 
I Ionly that he was relevant to the continued improvement in quality of a class of large casting 
dies at the company. The Petitioner has not offered claims or evidence demonstrating that other 
entities in the industry have implemented the improvements to the I I process at that 
can be attributed to him. In fact, Mr.I !indicated within his letter that the groundbreaking work 
the Petitioner is conducting al lwill no doubt be studied and built on by an emerging generation 
of engineering specialists focused on design and launch of electric vehicles that integrate similar 
I I 
As Mr. I I account here is speculative, it does not show that the Petitioner's work at 
amounts to contributions that have already been realized within the field. A Petitioner must establish 
the elements for the approval of the petition at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). A 
petition may not be approved if the Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date, but expects to 
become eligible at a subsequent time. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 
1971). And as such, his claims relating to his work at constituting a contribution of major 
significance in the field are not supported in the record. 
6 
Although the Petitioner's work may have brought him some rapid attention, he lacks a career of 
acclaimed work at a sustained national or international level. We place the Petitioner among those 
who achieve interest once early in their career, but who have not yet emerged among that small 
percentage at the very top ofthe field. 
While the USCIS Policy Manual provides that a foreign national "may be very young or early in his 
or her career and still be able to show sustained acclaim" and that "[t]here is also no definitive time 
frame on what constitutes sustained," we conclude the Petitioner has not met his burden to demonstrate 
that he "continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of expertise since [he] was 
originally afforded that recognition." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l). 
Instead, it appears the Petitioner's situation is more akin to the Policy Manual's closing sentence in 
the Sustained National or International Acclaim section: "A person may, for example, have achieved 
national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to maintain a comparable level of acclaim 
thereafter." Id. For those whose careers are in the beginning stages, they must still demonstrate that 
overall they have built a career worthy of this classification's high bar. The fact that they are in the 
nascent stages of their career is not "a pass" to lower the standards associated with this highly restrictive 
immigrant classification. 
Despite the Petitioner's claims to the contrary, he has not contributed extensive evidence for the record 
on par with the rigors of this immigrant classification. In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top oftheir respective fields, rather 
than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner's evidence confirms that he has 
contributed to the field through his quality control methods. However, considering the full measure of 
his ability and achievements, the level of his national or international acclaim and the extent to which his 
achievements have been recognized in the field, these aspects are not indicative of a record of sustained 
acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive documentation exhibiting he has attained a level of 
expertise placing him among that small percentage that has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that 
burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 16, 2024 In Re: 32372488 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a gymnastics trampoline and tumbling coach, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, frrst-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their field. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary requirements -two less than needed for a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she satisfied two other evidentiary criteria: 
evidence of her membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements in the field; and 
documentation of her performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished 
reputations. She also argues that she submitted "comparable evidence" of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has submitted evidence of her performance in a critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. But, because she has not met the requisite number of 
initial evidentiary criteria, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary criteria above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding USCIS' two-step review 
process as "consistent with the governing statute and regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Kazakhstani native and citizen, served as head coach of her 
country's trampoline and tumbling gymnastics team from 2013 to 2018. 2 Now in the United States, 
she works as a power tumbling program director and head coach at an acrobatics and gymnastics 
academy. She seeks to continue coaching gymnastics in this country. 
The Petitioner does not claim -nor does the record show -her receipt of a major, international award. 
She must therefore meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). When assessing whether evidence satisfies the regulatory criteria, USCIS 
determines whether materials "objectively meet[] the parameters of the regulatory description that 
applies to that type of evidence." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8). 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted documentation of her participation as a judge of the 
work of others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). But the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner provided insufficient evidence that she: received lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field; obtained membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements in the field; performed in leading or critical roles for organizations with 
distinguished reputations; or provided comparable evidence of her eligibility. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (viii), (4). 
A. Membership in Associations 
This criterion requires "[ d]ocumentation of the [ noncitizen] 's membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 If the evidentiary standards do not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit "comparable 
evidence" to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(4). 
2 A copy of a news article that the Petitioner submitted identifies another person as the national team's head coach in 2016. 
The Director did not notify the Petitioner of this discrepancy. Thus, in any future filings in this matter, she must explain 
why the article lists the purp01ted chief judge of Kazakhstan's national gymnastics championships as the team's 2016 head 
coach. See Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the tmth lies). 
2 
The Petitioner contends that, as coach, she was a member of the Kazakhstan national trampoline and 
tumbling team from 2013 to 2018. She submitted copies ofher team coach identification badges from 
the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) I I Competitions in 2013 and the 2015 
Trampoline and Tumbling I I She also submitted letters from Kazakhstan Gymnastics 
Federation officials and the federation's rules for selecting national team coaches. 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the beneficiary is a member ofan association or that "the 
basis for granting membership in the submitted association was the beneficiary's outstanding 
achievements in the field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field." 
A preponderance of the evidence establishes that the Petitioner's role as coach of the Kazakhstan 
national trampoline and tumbling team constituted team membership. Letters from Kazakhstan 
Gymnastics Federation officials state: "We confirm [that the Petitioner], in her capacity as National 
Team Coach, is/was a member of the National Trampoline and Tumbling Team of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan."3 Also, a copy of the federation's rule "Criteria for the Selection of a National Team 
Coach" outlines how coaches are considered "for selection to the Kazakhstan National Trampoline 
Team." The Petitioner therefore has demonstrated her membership on the Kazakhstan national 
trampoline and tumbling team. 
Citing prior non-precedent decisions of ours, the Petitioner contends that memberships on national 
teams satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). In a February 2009 decision involving a 
member of Georgia's national freestyle wrestling team who later became a member of the republic's 
Olympic team, we stated: "Membership on an Olympic team or a major national team such as a World 
Cup soccer team can serve to meet this criterion. Such teams are limited in the number of members 
and have a rigorous selection process." In that case, we found that the wrestler did not meet the 
evidentiary requirement because the record did not show his membership on the Olympics team until 
after the petition's filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (requiring a petitioner to demonstrate eligibility 
"at the time of filing the benefit request"). Also, we found that he did not submit evidence of the 
selection process and membership requirements for the Georgian national freestyle wrestling team. 4 
As previously indicated, the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the selection process and 
membership requirements for a Kazakhstani national team coach. But current USCIS policy generally 
does not consider an athletic team to constitute an "association" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Under Agency policy, "[e]lection to a national all-star or Olympic team might serve as comparable 
evidence for evidence of memberships in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)." 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(8)(1) (emphasis added). Thus, USCIS policy indicates that the evidentiary requirement for 
association membership does not "readily apply" to an athletic team membership. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.S(h)( 4). Also, we need not follow our prior non-precedent decisions cited by the Petitioner. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.1 0(b) (requiring USCTS to follow precedent decisions in proceedings involving the 
3 A 2018 letter from the federation's secretary general states that the Petitioner "is" a team member. A 2022 letter from 
the federation's technical committee president, issued after the Petitioner's move to the United States, states that she "was" 
a team member. 
4 We were unable to immediately access a copy of In Re: ._______ _.(AAO Sep. 10, 2002), the other decision 
that the Petitioner cites. But she cites the case for the same proposition as the February 2009 decision. 
3 
same issues). We therefore agree with the Director that, contrary to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the 
Petitioner did not establish herself as a member of an association . 
The Petitioner further contends that her selection as Kazakhstan national team coach required 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. She 
submits evidence that, to annually obtain the team coach position, she had to have coached a team 
athlete to a national championship and received the votes of a three-person selection committee. 
But the copy of the Kazakhstan Gymnastics Federation rule for selecting a national team coach that 
the Petitioner submitted bears a date of 2020, two years after she left the team. The record does not 
demonstrate that the same rule applied when she served as national team coach from 2013 to 2018. 
See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591 (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies with 
independent, objective evidence). Thus, even if the Petitioner's team membership equated to 
membership in an association, the record does not establish that, during her tenure, her selection as 
national team coach required outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her satisfaction of the evidentiary 
requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
B. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence that the [noncitizen] has performed in 
a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 
8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
First, USCIS determines whether a petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F .(2)(8)(1 ). Evidence of a leading role must demonstrate that a petitioner is ( or was) 
a leader within the organization. Id. In contrast, evidence of a critical role must establish that a 
petitioner "has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome ofthe organization 
or establishment's activities." Id. 
Second, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division 
for which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation . 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). The term "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence" or "befitting an eminent person." Merriam- Webster Dictionary, www .merriam­
webster.com . Factors include not only an organization's relative size or longevity, but also the scale 
of its service base or relevant media coverage. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .(2)(8)(1 ). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this evidentiary requirement both as former coach of the 
Kazakhstan national trampoline and tumbling team and in her current role as power tumbling program 
director and head coach at the U.S. acrobatics and gymnastics academy. She contends that the Director 
erred in finding insufficient evidence that she performed in a leading or critical role or that the 
organizations have distinguished reputations. 
4 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the purported distinguished reputation of her current employer. 
The record shows that the acrobatics and gymnastics academy began operations in 2008. But the 
academy's owner/acrobatics program director stated that the facility did not produce a medal-winning 
athlete at a major international event until 2022. The Petitioner provided information about itself and 
its faculty. But the record lacks independent, objective evidence of the academy's purported 
eminence. Thus, based on the Petitioner's current role, she has not satisfied the evidentiary criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner, however, has demonstrated that she meets this requirement based on her former work 
in Kazakhstan. Letters from the republic's gymnastics federation and copies of competition results 
describe the international successes ofher team's athletes during her coaching tenure. Also, an expert 
letter from another experienced coach and director of a U.S. gymnastics academy discusses 
Kazakhstan's "historically strong international rating" in the field. The expert stated: "A coach's 
assignment to the Kazakhstan national trampoline and tumbling team automatically places him or her 
at the top of the field by the highest international standards." Thus, contrary to the Director's finding, 
the Petitioner's evidence demonstrates her performance in a critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B) ("[A]lthough some of the regulatory 
language relating to evidence occasionally uses plurals, it is entirely possible that the presentation of 
a single piece of evidence in a specific evidentiary category may be sufficient.") 
C. Comparable Evidence 
As previously noted, if the initial evidentiary criteria do not "readily apply" to a petitioner's 
occupation, the noncitizen "may submit comparable evidence to establish [their] eligibility." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). When evaluating comparable evidence, USCIS must consider whether a regulatory 
criterion is easily applicable to a petitioner's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is 
truly comparable to the listed criterion. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner contends that documentation of her students' receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the gymnastics field are comparable to the 
requirement for evidence of her own such awards. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). She states that: 
evidence of awards won by students under the coach's tutelage does not 'fit' under any 
of the 10 [ evidentiary] criteria, and yet, evidence of such awards is arguably the single 
most important and relevant evidence of the coach's own level of accomplishment. 
The Petitioner cites five non-precedent decisions of ours between 2005 and 2013 treating athletes' 
awards as comparable evidence to awards for their coaches. She argues that our decisions did not 
require the petitioners to establish the unavailability of coaching awards. 
Under current USCIS policy, however, petitioners seeking to use comparable evidence must 
demonstrate the inapplicability of the relevant evidentiary criteria to them. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(l). Contrary to the Agency's policy, the Petitioner has not established the 
inapplicability of the award criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) to gymnastics coaches. The two 
gymnastics experts whose letters the Petitioner submitted both claim to have won "Coach ofthe Year" 
awards. The Petitioner has not demonstrated the unavailability of such awards for gymnastics coaches 
5 
in Kazakhstan. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) ("A general unsupported assertion that the 
listed evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative.") 
Also, as previously indicated, the non-precedent AAO decisions cited by the Petitioner do not bind us 
in this matter. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.l0(b). She therefore has not properly used comparable evidence to 
meet the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not met the requisite number of initial evidentiary criteria. 
We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
D. Final Merits Determination 
Our decision regarding the initial evidentiary requirements resolves this appeal. Thus, we need not 
reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's arguments regarding a final merits determination. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant did not 
otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met the requisite number of initial evidentiary criteria. We will therefore affirm 
the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Q-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field 
of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry." See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets an additional criterion, relating to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). He maintains that he 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of Q-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's resume and other documents show that he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree 
in mechanical engineering from I I University in Indiana in 2014. The evidence indicates that he 
began working as a postdoctoral research associate at the.__ _________ ____. in Illinois in 
November 2014. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented evidence from professional 
publications -including Nano Energy, Journal of Materials Chemistry A, and Journal of Power 
Sources -confirming that he has served as one of their manuscript reviewers. Additionally, the record 
establishes that he has authored scholarly articles that are published in professional journals. For 
example, Nano Energy published his article I I 
and Nature Energy 
published his article '.__ ____________________________ __, 
I I 
Although the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), as we will 
discuss below, he has not demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 1 that he meets the initial 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCTS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
2 
Matter of Q-L-
evidence requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 2 He claims that he has made original 
scientific contributions of major significance in the field of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and 
Electrochemistry." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record, however, is insufficient to support this 
assertion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). According to supporting documents he submitted when he filed the petition in May 
2017, he had authored 33 published peer-reviewed articles that, according to a 2017 Google Scholar 
printout, received approximate! 720 citations. The rintout indicates that his most cited work at the 
time was his 2013 articl 
'-----~~----~-~------.-' which had been cited approximately 150 times, and that 
his other articles had each garnered a substantially lower number of citations, with some receiving 
none. On appeal, he submits an updated Google Scholar printout and other evidence, showing that he 
has authored additional articles and that his work has received additional citations since he filed his 
petition in May 2017. 3 
While the Petitioner has offered printouts from Clarivate Analytics to support his assertion that his 
articles have received more citations than those of other scientists in related fields, he has not 
established that he satisfies this criterion. 4 He presents incomplete copies of other researchers' papers 
that cite to his work. For example, a 2016 Chemical Reviews article cites his article among at least 
119 other papers. A 2015 Energy and Enviornmental Science article references his paper among at 
least 190 other articles. A 2016 Nano Energy article lists two of his articles among at least 199 other 
papers. Similarly, a 2016 Materials Science & Engineering article cites his article among at least 788 
other references. Citations to the Petitioner's work illustrate that his work has had some impact, the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. L Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update AD 11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-
evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
2 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
3 We determine his eligibility by focusing on facts that existed at the time he filed the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) 
(providing that eligibility must be established at the time of filing). 
4 The Clarivate Analytics printouts include data on "baselines-citation rates" and "baselines-percentiles" in research fields 
such as "chemistry," "engineering," "materials science," and "physics." These documents, however, do not provide 
specific information for the field of "Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry," in which the Petitioner 
claims extraordinary ability. 
3 
Matter of Q-L-
record, however, does not sufficiently demonstrate that his research has been widely accepted, 
implemented, or regarded as authoritative throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field, as required under the 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted printouts from Thomson 
Reuters Web of Sciencej and claimed that his articles are the 635th most cited paper between 1978 
and 2018 on the topic of I' and the 257th most cited paper between 2015 and 2018 on 
the topic of 1 f' However, he has not shown that the citation ranking confirms his work 
constitutes major significance in the field. Moreover, he claims extraordinary ability in the field of 
"Nanostructure Material Synthesis and Electrochemistry," which encompasses multiple topics. His 
influence on two topics is insufficient to verify that his impact in the field, as a whole, rises to a level 
of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his work has been published in well-regarded journals and that he has 
presented at conferences. This evidence confirms that the journals and conference saw value in his 
research and concluded that it should be shared with others in the field. However, such evidence, 
without documented impact in the field, is insufficient to confirm that his work has risen to a level of 
major significance in the field after he disseminated his findings. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. Furthermore, the prestige of a publication or conference might reflect its 
standing in the field, but such evidence is insufficient to establish an author or a presenter's work 
constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations do not 
satisfy 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." See Kazarian 
v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Although the record includes a number of reference letters, they are insufficient to confirm that the 
Petitioner satisfies this criterion. These letters offer details on his professional accomplishments, 
including his judging, reviewing, writing, and researching activities. While they confirm that his work 
has impacted the field, they do not establish that the impact rises to the level of major significance. 
I l an associate professor of physics at thd I university, indicates that the 
Petitioner's "groundbreaking findings" have been published in "highly accredited, world renowned" 
publications . .===========;'also indicates that "[his] works provide the foundation for the current 
research on .__ _____ __. and have "triggered the continuous improvement of capacity of 
electrodes, which is a pre-requisite for improvement ofhigh-energ~ ~" I I 
an IBM research scientist, states that the Petitioner has "made some important discoveries," noting 
that "[ t ]hese are significant findings in the field of energy storage since they present new information 
that differs from previous studies." Other references, including.__ ____ --! a professor o~ ~in at the University;! I a professor at the University of L___J 
L___J , a professor of chemical engineering at the I I Institute of Technology; and 
~--~-~-a_s_e~nior scientist at thel 
O J Laboratory, praise the Petitioner's research 
findings, indicating they are important discoveries that have advanced the field. 
The record, including the reference letters, demonstrates that the Petitioner's work has value and has 
received some attention in the field. The evidence, however, has not sufficiently established that the 
impact or influence of his work has risen to the level of "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian, 
4 
Matter of Q-L-
596 F .3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting to [ a petitioner's] contributions 
in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9 (providing 
that "[l]etters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"). The Petitioner 
has not sufficiently shown that his research -which has resulted in incremental advancements in the 
field, as are expected in any original research -qualifies as contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
Some of the documentation discusses the potential of the Petitioner's work. For example,..,I ___ ~ 
,___ _ ____.I categorizes the Petitioner as a "young" scientist who "shows great promise and potential in 
solving research problems with great scientific significance and applicability." He claims that the 
Petitioner's work "will guide the research and development of a new generation oti I and their 
~ications" and "will revolutionize the next generation of portablr consumer e)ectronjcs "I I 
L_J and I I a group leader and principal investor at_ I Laboratory, 
similarly reference the potential of the Petitioner's research. Additionally, the Petitioner has offered 
a press release :osted onl I University's website, discussinP the potential impact of his work on I J and an article posted on the I j Laboratory website, noting that his 
research "is promising to enable further understanding of nanomaterials formed through microwave 
synthesis." Such evidence, including the reference letters and online materials, speculates his future 
influence in the field. It is, however, insufficient to confirm that he has already made original 
contributions of major significance in the field, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Upon a review of all the relevant documents in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. He has not presented evidence demonstrating that his research has provoked 
widespread commentary, has been referenced as authoritative, or has received notice from others at a 
level indicative of its "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian, 580 F. 3d at 1036; USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. He has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
5 
Matter of Q-L-
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of Q-L-, ID# 3711409 (AAO July 17, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 1 7, 2024 In Re: 32372939 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 
25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of 
Christo 's Inc. , 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will summarily 
dismiss the appeal because it did not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion oflaw or statement 
of fact in the unfavorable decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) . 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
The Petitioner stated he will continue to work in the United States as a musician. The Director 
concluded the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the record does not demonstrate 
that he meets any of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet 
at least three. 
On the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, the Petitioner only generally contends that "USCIS 
committed several errors of both fact and law" and requests that we determine that he merits "a 
national interest waiver as a matter of discretion." However, beyond general assertions, he does not 
identify, or even address, any specific error of fact or law. Further, the petition before us is based on 
an individual of extraordinary ability and not an individual applying for a national interest waiver. 
Moreover, the subsequently filed appeal brief is virtually identical to the request for evidence response 
and does not explain why we should find these eligibility claims any more persuasive than the Director 
did. As he does not provide any additional evidence and does not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion of law or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision, we must summarily dismiss the 
appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 17, 2024 In Re: 31265392 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior director of product management, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The Petitioner filed a subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider, which the Director 
granted. After reopening and reconsidering the matter, the Director again denied the petition, 
concluding that the Petitioner did satisfy the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification but 
did not establish in a final merits determination, as required, that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now 
before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen' s] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a technology product manager with more than 16 years of international experience 
managing technology product strategy. He states that his engineering and product expertise with 
product lifecycle management and model-based simulation and testing has been applied in various 
industries, including "automotive, industrial automation, medical devices, semiconductor, and 
aerospace /defense." He states that he intends to continue his work in the United States managing 
"groundbreaking hyper-niche system engineering technologies." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that 
he could meet eight of these criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
2 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanding a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, 
in relation to others in the field. 
After the initial filing, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that 
the evidence in the record was not sufficient to demonstrate that he met any of the claimed criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence. 
Upon review of the Petitioner's response to the RFE, in a decision dated April 28, 2023, the Director 
concluded that the record did not demonstrate that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, as required for the requested classification. However, after granting the Petitioner's 
subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider, the Director issued a new decision, dated October 16, 
2023, concluding that the Petitioner demonstrated that he met three of the ten criteria. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii), 
having participated as a judge of the work of others in the field, authored scholarly articles in major 
trade or professional publications, and performed in a leading or critical role for organizations with a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director fully discussed and analyzed each of the total eight claimed criteria in the RFE and in 
two separate decisions. She explained the deficiencies in the evidence in the record as it relates to 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (ix). However, because the Petitioner demonstrated that he 
met the initial evidence requirements of three criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze the petitioner's 
accomplishments together and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. As noted above, 
in a final merits determination, the Director looks at whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the record, as a whole, did not establish that the Petitioner garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. The Director noted that the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has 
garnered some attention in the field and has been recognized for his work; however, it does not support 
the Petitioner's claims that his work has made an impact in the field of technology product 
management, or that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim based on his 
achievements. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
In determining whether a petitioner has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim, we 
consider that such acclaim must be maintained, and the individual's achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See also 6 USCJS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(A)(l). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief referencing the same arguments and evidence previously 
submitted. The Petitioner asserts that by satisfying three of the ten criteria that are required to 
demonstrate extraordinary ability, he met the preponderance of the evidence standard and thus 
qualifies for the requested classification . It appears, however, that the Petitioner focuses entirely on 
his ability to meet at least three of ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) as the basis for 
claiming that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. We disagree. As noted above, and as 
previously stated both in the Director's RFE and two decisions, meeting the minimum requirements 
by providing evidence to meet at least three initial criteria is not sufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner is an individual of extraordinary ability, but instead is only the fust step. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). Here, the second step of the process is based 
on a comprehensive qualitative analysis of the evidence. 
The Director concluded in a final merits determination that the Petitioner did not establish by a 
preponderance of the evidence that he has demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim to 
establish that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See id. Although the Petitioner reemphasizes his career successes and skills on appeal, he 
does not address the Director's final merits determination analysis and instead continues to focus 
exclusively on the fact that the minimum evidentiary requirements were satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the abuse of discretion of one particular officer negatively 
influenced the decision in this matter. He asserts that after granting the motion to reopen and 
reconsider and withdrawing the initial decision, the same officer should not have been allowed to 
continue to adjudicate the petition. Here, we note that the Petitioner makes several incorrect 
statements about the adjudication of this matter. 2 First, he incorrectly states that the Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and reconsider the matter. In fact, 
this decision was made by the Director and not the AAO. 
Next, the Petitioner incorrectly states that evidence submitted with the combined motions was "prima 
facie evidence" that he had established two of the initial evidence criteria, and that the motion decision 
"specifically address[ ed] the elite nature of [his membership in an association that requires outstanding 
achievements]." The Director's decision granting the combined motions states that the "evidence 
submitted ... overcomes the grounds stated for denial," but makes no determination that the Petitioner 
had satisfied the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), membership in an association that requires 
outstanding achievements. Nor does it state that the Petitioner met any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Instead, the Director's separate decision following reopening, dated October 16, 
2023, addresses the criteria he met. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner's representative requests a refund of the filing fee paid for Premium Processing service. 
However, we do not handle filing fees and exercise no control over requests such as the one made by counsel. 
4 
Additionally, the Petitioner incorrectly states that the Director determined that he met only two of the 
claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). As noted above, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had established that he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii), having 
participated as a judge of the work of others in the field, authored scholarly articles in major trade or 
professional publications, and performed in a leading or critical role for organizations with a 
distinguished reputation. Therefore, the Director found that the Petitioner met three initially required 
criteria to progress to consideration under a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director erred in not issuing a RFE to allow him an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence demonstrating his national acclaim. He states, "Having 
previously stated no basis for any putative deficiency regarding acclaim, [the Director] is therefore 
barred from raising this issue of acclaim at this point." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) lists the initial evidence that is required when filing a petition 
seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, which includes evidence that the 
individual "has sustained national or international acclaim." As noted above, in determining sustained 
national or international acclaim, not only does the Director examine the evidence in the record meant 
to satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), but the second step of the process requires a 
comprehensive qualitative analysis of the evidence. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at 
F.2(B)(2)(stating, "the officer should consider the petition in its entirety to determine eligibility 
according to the standard"). Here, the Director did issue a detailed RFE and two decisions informing 
the Petitioner of deficiencies in the evidence in the record in demonstrating his eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. As noted above, in the second decision, dated October 16, 2023, 
the Director considered the totality of the material provided, including evidence related to the 
Petitioner's eight claimed criteria, in a final merits determination to assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and concluded that it did not. We note that the 
Petitioner did not submit additional evidence on appeal related to any aspect of the case, although he 
had the opportunity to do so. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director ignored evidence in the record, specifically a "technical 
scholarly white paper" discussing "complex hardware and software simulation on real-time simulation 
and testing." The Petitioner asserts that "this white paper alone represents acclaim." We conclude 
that the record reflects the Director's consideration of all evidence in the totality even though she did 
not address each piece of evidence individually. The five-page white paper does not indicate the name 
ofthe author and does not include a date ofpublication. The paper appears to be promotional in nature, 
describing a solution for real-time testing and simulation developed by the Petitioner's employer. The 
Petitioner, himself, is not mentioned in the paper. When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to 
the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will not be required to specifically address each claim 
the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to address every piece of evidence the petitioner 
presents. Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 
973, 976 (1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. US. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 
2009); Casalena v. US. INS, 984 F.2d 105, 107 (4th Cir. 1993). 
5 
Although the Petitioner met three of the initial criteria to reach a final merits determination, and 
therefore, a full discussion of the remaining criteria is not necessary, we will briefly address them to 
the extent that they may have added to any final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that his inclusion on the list of "40 Under 40 Innovators" from 
_________ in 2022 "constitutes at least a degree of recognition of [his] acclaim." In 
the RFE and both decisions, the Director considered this evidence and noted that the Petitioner did not 
establish that this constitutes a prize or award based on the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Although this mention may be considered some degree of recognition for the Petitioner, we agree with 
the Director that the record does not establish that the Petitioner was the recipient of a prize or award. 
Nor does this recognition demonstrate a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The Petitioner also asserts that his original contributions to the field demonstrate his national acclaim, 
including "documented breakthroughs in the 'hyper niche field' of real-time simulation," authoring a 
white paper that has been cited and republished, and presenting "declassified military age tech to 
commercial civil manufacturing" at an automation fair conference. The Director also addressed these 
contributions as described in letters of recommendation in the record in conducting a final merits 
determination. The Director determined that, while the letters praise the Petitioner and his work, the 
record "does not include corroborating evidence to show that he is viewed by the overall field as being 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor." The USCIS Policy Manual 
notes that, "Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the 
person's contributions may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original 
contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation 
corroborating the claimed significance." 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). We agree with 
the Director's analysis. The attestations describe the Petitioner's accomplishments, but the record 
does not include corroborating evidence to support that these accomplishments are original 
contributions ofmajor significance demonstrating an achievement of national or international acclaim 
and recognition in the field of technology product management. 
The Director further determined that the record did not include evidence corroborating that the 
Petitioner's presentation influenced attendees or resulted in national or international acclaim for the 
Petitioner. As noted above, the Petitioner does not submit additional evidence on appeal to overcome 
this deficiency. 
In considering the Petitioner's white paper, as noted above, the paper does not credit the Petitioner as 
author and appears to be promoting technology developed by the Petitioner's employer. The paper 
does not credit the Petitioner with any original contribution to the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that his high level ofremuneration also demonstrates his national acclaim. Here, 
the Petitioner relies on tax records reflecting his wages in 2021 and 2022 and provides salary 
information from ZipRecruiter.com for comparison. The Director analyzed this evidence in the RFE 
and in both decisions, noting deficiencies in the salary information used for comparison. Specifically, 
the Director noted that the salary information from ZipRecruiter.com is based on self-reported 
information where accuracy cannot be confirmed. She further noted that the ZipRecruiter.com salary 
6 
information is for 2023 and does not correspond to the evidence of the Petitioner's wages in 2021 and 
2022. The Petitioner does not provide new evidence on appeal to address these deficiencies. 
The Petitioner points to a statement from a talent acquisition specialist attesting to his high salary. The 
statement makes no mention ofthe Petitioner's actual salary or remuneration. The author states, "Both 
[the Petitioner's] past and current salaries have steadily remained while already at the ninety-fifth 
percentile among graduates with this degree and in this field, represents a fraction of his earning 
potential." However, the author of the statement does not provide any citation or explanation of how 
the Petitioner's salary is calculated to be at the 95th percentile. Nor does the author reference any data 
points to define the meaning or relevance of "the 95th percentile." Without corroborating evidence we 
cannot consider this statement to demonstrate that the Petitioner's compensation is high relative to that 
of others working in the field or of his national acclaim. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
(IEEE) demonstrates his national acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner states that, in granting the motion 
to reopen and reconsider, there were "implicit instructions" that he satisfied multiple criteria related 
to his association with the IEEE. As we have noted above, the Director's decision to grant the motion 
to reopen and reconsider in this matter did not make any determination as to the Petitioner's eligibility 
or state that the Petitioner met any ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Instead, the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner met the three initial criteria in her decision of October 16, 2023. The 
motion decision did not give any instructions or discuss at all the Petitioner's membership in the IEEE. 
While the Director did conclude, in her October 16, 2023 decision, that the Petitioner satisfied two 
criteria based on his work in the IEEE - 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii), having participated as a 
judge of the work of others in the field and performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
with a distinguished reputation -the Director also analyzed this membership in making a final merits 
determination. Here, the Director noted that the IEEE bylaws do not establish "that requirements for 
membership reflect outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts, nor does it represent an individual who is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field." The Petitioner does not provide new evidence on appeal to address this. Although the 
Petitioner expresses disagreement with the Director's analysis of his membership in the IEEE, he does 
not explain how the Director's analysis was contrary to law or policy. While the Petitioner states that 
the Director "refuses to concede the elite nature of [the] Senior Membership of which less than ten 
percent (10%) of the global membership is ever elevated," the record does not include evidence to 
support this statement. The Petitioner must support assertions with relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
Upon review of the totality of the evidence, we conclude that the Director thoroughly analyzed the 
Petitioner's evidence and arguments and provided him with a complete decision reaching the correct 
conclusion. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner here has not demonstrated sustained 
national or international acclaim to demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor and has not established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 3 
3 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability, or whether his entry will substantially benefit 
the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) , (iii) of the Act. Accordingly, we decline to reach and hereby reserve 
these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim required by section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 
526 n. 7 (BIA 20 l 5) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 17, 2024 In Re: 31493939 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, and he did not demonstrate his 
entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
meets an additional five criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). For the reasons discussed 
below, the Petitioner has shown he fulfills at least three categories of evidence. 
First, in order to meet the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner must show that 
has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. The 
Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer reviewed manuscripts for a scientific 
journal. A letter from the executive secretary of the editorial board of the journal I 
I 1 also referred to in the record as I I identifies three scientific articles he peer 
reviewed between 2022 and 2023 as the publication's deputy editor-in-chief. The Petitioner therefore 
demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
1 The record indicates that covers "issues of criminolo and forensic examination" and is a 
biannual publication of the where the 
Petitioner is the deputy director. 
2 
Next, the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." The 
record reflects that the Petitioner authored several scholarly articles, including: I I 
published 
in Medicni Pers ektivi in 2021 • and 
published 
in Journal ofEducation, Health and Sport in __2021. 
users first determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field. As defined in 
the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical 
discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, 
university, or research institution. Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by other experts 
in the field of specialization. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and 
may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. For other 
fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. Learned persons include 
all persons having profound knowledge ofa field. Id. Here, the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence 
demonstrating his authorship of articles containing characteristics of scholarly material. 
Second, users determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major media publication. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other media in the field (for major 
media). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Here, the Petitioner's 
documentation reflects issuance in professional publications. Therefore, the petitioner fulfilled the 
scholarly articles criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated his qualification for the judging and scholarly articles criteria 
under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). Therefore, the Petitioner has overcome this basis for denial 
of the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third initial 
criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 
2 Because the Petitioner has fulfilled three criteria, we need not decide whether he meets the original contributions, leading 
or critical role, or high salary criteria, and the entire record will be evaluated in the context ofthe final merits determination. 
See also generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (indicating that in the second step of the analysis, the 
petitioner must demonstrate that the person has sustained national or international acclaim and that their achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
B. Substantial Prospective Benefit 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act requires that the person's "entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States."3 Although neither the statute nor the regulations 
specifically define the statutory phrase "substantia lly benefit," it has been interpreted broadly. 4 In this 
case, the Petitioner provided sufficiently detailed plans explaining his intentions to continue work in 
his area of expertise in the United States, as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 5 In 
addition, his plans addressed how his entry will substantially benefit the United States in the future. 6 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has overcome this basis for the Director's denial. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reasons for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination . 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn . The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 See also generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(3). 
4 See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953 (Assoc. Comm. 1994) (golfer of beneficiary's caliber will substantia lly benefit 
prospectively the United States given the popularity of the sport). 
5 See also generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2). 
6 For instance, he intends to continue his scientific work relating to technological advancements to improve the 
methodological support of the investigation of firearm-related crimes, and research regarding bullet wound channels to 
provide advancements in protocols for the surgical repair of gunshot injuries. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19917541 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an attorney, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(bXl)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that, as an attorney practicing law in the specialization of international litigation and 
arbitration, the Petitioner was eligible for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will vacate the Director's decision 
and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an attorney specializing in international dispute resolution. He holds four master of 
laws degrees, and is licensed to practice law in China and the states of California and 
New York. He states that he has already opened a partnership in the United States to practice law in 
this area, and will continue to do so while also pursuing opportunities as a lecturer and scholar. 
Although the Petitioner claimed to meet six of the ten evidentiary criteria, the Director did not address 
the evidence presented under these criteria in either his notice of intent to deny (NOID) or decision. 
He instead focused on the listing of attorney as a profession under section 101(a)(32) of the Act, 
concluding that because members of the professions are specifically listed as eligible for classification 
under the second and third preference categories for employment-based immigrants but not under 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i), they are not eligible for classification as aliens of extraordinary ability unless 
their occupation falls within the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics. The Director found 
that the Petitioner's "occupation and field" did not "fall within the purview" of any of those areas of 
expertise. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially asserts that the Director ignored his statement, submitted for the first 
time in response to the NOID, that in addition to practicing law he planned to "continue to work as a 
lecturer and scholar in the U.S., focusing on teaching students and legal professionals in the field of 
international dispute resolution." While we agree that the Director did not evaluate this evidence in 
his decision, we note that although the Petitioner submitted evidenceofhavingauthoreda professional 
guide to arbitration and contributing to professional book chapters in China, he does not indicate, and 
the evidence does not show, that he has ever worked as a lecturer, professor, or professional trainer, 
or otherwise acted as an educator as he now proposes to do. Since the Petitioner has not claimed or 
1 While the Director did not include in his decision a citation to the 1995 opinion of the General Counsel of the legacy 
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in this matter, we note thatthe decision essentially adopts the reasoning of 
that opinion. Gen Co Op. No. 95-3 (INS), 1995 WL 1796310. General Counsel opinions are advisory in nature and are 
thereforenotbinding.R.L.Jnv. Ltd. Partnersv. INS, 86 F.Supp. 2d 1014, 1022(0.Haw. 2000). Aff'd273 F.3d 874 (9th 
Cir. 2001). 
2 
submitted any evidence to support his extraordinary ability in the field of education, we need not 
considerwhether his plan to pursue emp loymentas an adjunct professor and participate in professional 
associations in the United States meets the requirement at section 203(b )(l)(ii) of the Act. 
However, upon de novo review we find that the record includes evidence which demonstrates that the 
Petitioner's practice of international dispute resolution and arbitration law places his area of expertise 
within the field of business. He indicates that he participated in the drafting of an arbitration guide for 
handling international disputes for Chinese attorneys, was appointed as an arbitrator by the China 
International Economic and Trade Arbitration Committee (CIETAC), and has authored articles on 
subjects including comparative arbitration systems and international investment published in 
professional legal journals. The evidence shows that these activities have a direct impact upon the 
strategies and operations of businesses participating in international trade, investment, and 
commerce. 2 Therefore, on remand the Director should evaluate the evidence in the record to determine 
whether it establishes that the Petitioner, as an attorney in the fie Id of business, meets three of the 
evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If the Director determines that it does, he should 
then consider whether the totality of the evidence shows that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim the field of international dispute resolution, and that the Petitioner is one of the 
very small percentage at the top of this field. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 For example, a statement from the ______________________ cites the 
growth of international investment as the impetus for the promulgation of the new arbitration rules that the Petitioner 
helped to draft. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 18, 2023 In Re: 20617300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in '"that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working as an actor. While we do not discuss 
each piece of evidence, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have received a major, internationally recognized award 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and to have met the following eight alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Participation as a judge of others' work; 
• Original contribution of major significance; 
• Display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions; 
• Leading or critical role; 
• High salary in relation to others; and 
• Commercial successes in performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, but that he satisfied four of the alternate regulatory criteria, lesser prizes or awards; published 
material about him and his work; participation as a judge of others' work; and display of work at 
artistic showcases or exhibitions. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv) and (vii). We agree with the 
2 
Director's determination the Petitioner meets three ofthe regulatory criteria; however, we do not agree 
the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner met the criterion for published material about him and his 
work. We reserve consideration of the evidence submitted for published material in our review of the 
totality of the material in the final merits determination set out in Kazarian. 
After determining that the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. Based on an evaluation of the totality of the evidence, the Director 
concluded that the record did not show the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and 
did not demonstrate that he is at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has received a major, internationally recognized award 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and that he satisfies additional criteria relating to original 
contribution of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has already shown that he satisfies the minimum 
requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the requisite initial evidence has been submitted, we will evaluate whether the record demonstrates, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that the Petitioner's 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine ifthe petitioner's successes are sufficient to demonstrate he has extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. In this petition, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility as a person of extraordinary ability. 
The Director concluded the evidence was insufficient to establish that he enjoyed sustained national 
or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. The Director 
considered the totality of the evidence, including the Petitioner's acting roles in award winning films, 
the awards and scholarshi s for his music therapy practice; his lead 
acting role in the production,~-------------~Children's Hospital; his work 
with other well-known organizations for advertising campaigns; his song I I being voted 
number one at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart onl in 2015; his 
judging activities at the 2018, 2019, and 2020 International Festivals! Iheld inl I 
published articles about the Petitioner; and his ski I Is and work described in letters of recommendation 
from his colleagues. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director abused its discretion in its final merits determination, 
and that his "resume and track record of success has proven that he has sustained the level of 
extraordinary international and national acclaim." The Petitioner emphasizes the Jury Prize for best 
film at the 2017 International Festival I I for which he was recognized for his acting; his 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing that objectively 
meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 
being selected from over four thousand applicants for a lead acting role for anl !advertising 
campaign; his lead acting role with the I I commercials for the video game developer,I I and articles discussing his work. 
The Petitioner is described as an Iranian born Swedish actor, singer, songwriter, and music therapist 
for individuals with disabilities and special needs. The record shows he attained a bachelor's degree 
in music therapy from I I University atl Iin 2014, earning scholarships for his 
academic work in music therapy. As a distraction to his pain from a car accident and anxiety, the 
Petitioner explains taking acting lessons and later earning acting roles for commercials and films. 
The Petitioner performed a lead acting role as a visually impaired person in the short film, I I 
.____ _.I and attributes earning the role because of his music background and his connection with the 
disability community having worked with clients who had visual impairments. The film was awarded 
the Jury Prize for best film at the 2017 International Festival! lheld inl land was 
nominated for best film at the 2017 I I Festival in India. The Petitioner was recognized as 
an actor on the Jury Prize for best film and was offered a judge role for subsequent International 
Festivals! Ifor 2018, 2019, and 2020. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has acted in additional roles for the following: the public service 
announcement production.I I which helped raised more than eight million 
dollars for children's visual health atl IChildren's Hospital; the film, I I which 
earned a cinematography award in 2017; the short film, I lwhich was shown at film festivals in 
India, Italy, and Egypt; the role of I I video game commercials; and 
commercials for well-known companies, such asl I. The Petitioner 
has also been recognized in a few publications for his acting roles. The Petitioner emphasizes his 
career as a singer and songwriter, including his winning second place for singing at a Swedish talent 
competitionj Iat the age of 17, and his songI II being voted number one 
at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart on Iin 2015. 
The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's personal and professional 
achievements rise to a level ofa "career ofacclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 2 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner received an award, the Jury Prize for best film at the 2017 
International Festival! Iheld inl IThe Jury Prize for best film certificate lists the 
Petitioner as one of three actors in the film, and a letter froml I program director of 
International Festival I I Festival, states the Petitioner won the Jury Prize "for his acting 
performance in I lincluding best scenario, best film and direction." Details about the 
festival awards were submitted withI I letter indicating the festival received "700 films 
of 90 different nationalities." 
The record indicates the International Festival~! ----~I recognizes films with a specific focus, 
raising awareness for individuals with disabilities. An article in Kayhan Life International describes 
the film festival, I 
The record includes media 
2 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
4 I 
publications showing the Petitioner was recognized for his role in the film and his receipt of the award. 
However, the publications in which some of these articles appear relate to raising disability awareness 
rather than to the Petitioner's field of acting. Other articles appear in publications for which the record 
lacks evidence of circulation and readership. While indicative of some degree of recognition, the 
record lacks sufficient evidence to establish these articles demonstrate the requisite level of acclaim 
within the Petitioner's field. 
The record also includes letters of recommendation from colleagues recognizing the Petitioner acting 
in the film and his receipt of the award. However, the letters only make a brief mention of the film 
and its award, and most of the individuals writing the letters do not indicate whether they were 
associated with the films or how the] have knowledge of the Petitioner's acting in the films. 3 For 
instance, a letter from I a film producer, states, "I came across [the Petitioner's] 
extraordinary acting talent in the short film I I .... As a producer, I have worked with 
several Academy Award-winning [sic] actors and I must say that [the Petitioner's] extraordinary talent 
promises a bright future, resulting in many more awards in the acting field." While acknowledging 
the Petitioner's receipt of the award and his abilities as an actor, these letters do not attest to the 
significance of the award within the field of acting. Further.I I characterization of the 
Petitioner having "a bright future" with "many more awards" does not indicate the Petitioner is 
currently at the top of his field. A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing; a petition 
cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner or beneficiary becomes eligible under a new 
set of facts. Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). The record does not show that 
based on his acting in l I and his receipt of the Jury Prize award at the 201 7 International 
Festival I lthat he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the acting field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner claims he played lead acting roles in other films that have either received, or been 
nominated for, awards. The Petitioner's letter explains that the film I I earned a European 
Cinematography award and that the film,I Iwas shown at film festivals in India, Italy, and Egypt 
and was nominated for awards. To corroborate his claims, the record includes the films' advertising 
materials indicating his leading role, as well as letters of recommendation briefly mentioning his acting 
in the films. However, the advertising material and letters do not demonstrate the Petitioner's acclaim 
at the national or international level based on his role in these films. The record does not show that 
the Petitioner having a leading acting role in these films demonstrated his receiving significant 
attention and as a result, has not demonstrated he is at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes his career as a singer and songwriter, including his winning second 
place for singing at a Swedish talent competition,~-----~ at the age of 17. While the 
Petitioner provided a description of his winning second place, the record does not include independent, 
objective evidence supporting his claims. Letters of recommendation indicate the Petitioner having 
placed second at the competition, however, the letters are from people who do not appear to have 
direct knowledge of, or had any association with, the competition. The Petitioner also claims his song 
I I was voted number one at the top 100 Indie Dance/Disco chart on I I 
~in 2015. However, the record does not include independent, objective evidence to support the 
Petitioner's claims or to provide details of this award. Moreover, the Petitioner does not explain how 
3 All letters submitted by the Petitioner were reviewed and considered, even if not every letter is discussed herein. 
5 
recognition for his singing and songwriting abilities demonstrates acclaim in acting, his field of 
endeavor. 
As such, the evidence for the Petitioner's awards, and for the awards received by films he acted in, do 
not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner received an award commensurate with those among the 
top of his field of acting. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner submitted four articles related to his work as an actor. Two 
ofthe articles do not include an author,I Ipublished in Voyage Los Angeles andc=J 
.__________ ___. published in Persian Heritage. Without an author, it is uncertain whether 
the articles are marketin material or inde endent, ob·ective ublished articles about the Petitioner. 
The article entitled,'------------------------~ published in 
Kayhan Life International is about the Petitioner in his field of acting, however, the record lacks 
evidence demonstrating the prestige and scope of the publication. As such, the record is insufficient 
to establish that the Petitioner has enjoyed national or international acclaim based on these 
publications. 
The record also includes an article published in Abilities.com, IL----r-----,__ ____ __J 
._____________ ___. which indicates the author as I However, the 
article is written in the first person and does not reference the Petitioner by name. Since the article 
does not include the Petitioner's name, we are unable to determine that it is about the Petitioner or that 
it demonstrates his recognition within the field. A letter from the Petitioner's counsel explains that 
Abilities.com is a United States on-line newspaper founded in 2005 with a daily circulation of 239,000, 
and highlights literature, film, adaptive arts, dance, and inclusive recreation in the disability 
community. However, the Petitioner did not submit independent, objective evidence to support these 
claims. Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 
534 n.2 {BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503,506 {BIA 1980)). Counsel's 
statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence. With the article, the 
Petitioner submitted a printout summary of the 2018 Ability Expo, explaining it as a multi-city event 
dedicated to educating and improving the lives of Americans with disabilities. However, the 
connection of this summary to Abilities.com is not clear, as it does not mention the website or explain 
their relation. 
Although the media submitted recognizes the Petitioner's work as an actor, many of the submitted 
articles were not supported by independent evidence establishing the publications' prestige, 
circulation, or other factors indicative of national or international acclaim .. 
For the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others in the field of acting, the record 
shows he was a U.S. selection judge and a panel judge for the 2018 International Festival I I I I The record does not explain what level of candidates the Petitioner judged other than the 
film festival's program director stating that the Petitioner would "be part of the judge panel with the 
duties of watching and judging films" that paiiicipate in the festival. The Petitioner's judging 
experience is a relevant consideration as to whether the evidence is indicative of his national or 
international acclaim. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. Although the record shows that he was also 
asked to be part of the judge panels for the 2019 and 2020 International Festivals! Ithe 
record does not include evidence that the Petitioner participated as judge for those film festivals. 
6 
While the Petitioner's selection and participation on the panel of judges for International Festivals I lis commendable, the record shows the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work 
of others is limited to the one judging instance. Also, the record does not demonstrate how his judging 
experience compares to others at the top of the field, that the judge panel included nationally acclaimed 
actors, or that the judges received significant recognition in the field as a result of their participation. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage at 
the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record shows that the Petitioner's work was displayed at art exhibitions, including his acting in 
I I being shown at the 2017 International Festival I Iinl lthe 2017I I in India, and the 2017 I IFilm Festival in Belgium. We acknowledge 
that the film was awarded the Jury Prize, and the award recognized the Petitioner for his acting in the 
film; however, the record does not show that this festival, or the other festivals where the film was 
shown, were considered prestigious or garnered attention in the field of acting in a manner consistent 
with national or international acclaim. The record also includes advertising material for other films, 
specifically was shown at the 2017 I IFilm Festival and at the 2018 
._______ ___. Film Festival, and the film,I Iwas shown at film festivals in India, Italy, and 
Egypt and nominated for awards. Besides the Petitioner's assertions, the record does not include 
independent, objective evidence describing the films, the Petitioner's role in the films, details of the 
film festivals, or the award nominations. The Petitioner did not demonstrate his acting performances 
in films shown at the film festivals garnered him with national or international acclaim. For instance, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating his acting brought praise from critics in his field, 
drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or that his acting in the films showed that he "is one of that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Regarding original contributions of major significance in the field and for leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, we will address the evidence for these together. The Petitioner claims 
his acting played a critical role for the I I commercials and contributed to the success of 
the video game. The Petitioner also asserts that his acting role for anl !commercial campaign 
played a critical role in the economic and business success of the talent agency that represents him, 
,________ __, The record includes letters of recommendation from his talent agency and other 
individuals in the acting industry who worked with the Petitioner on commercials, advertising 
campaigns, and films. However, the record does not include evidence showing the Petitioner's acting 
in the I Iadvertising campaign, the I I commercials, or other commercials and 
advertising campaigns earned him national or international acclaim for his field. 
Regarding the commercials, the Petitioner submitted two letters from persons who 
worked on the commercials . ._______ __, a film and commercial producer, and I I a 
cinematographer and director, both acknowledge that the Petitioner's acting in the commercials helped 
with nominations for three awards, winning one award, and success with online views and product 
sales. The letter from the producer of theI I commercials states, "I produced I ID commercials forl land was casting for top of the field and 
extraordinary talents to fill the role oflead and critical rose of I I... Thanks to [the Petitioner's] 
extraordinary [sic] acting performance,! !commercial was nominated for [three] awards 
and came away with a win. I I was so pleased with [the Petitioner's] extraordinary acting 
skills and the outcome of the commercial and its results in sales and millions of views that they decided 
7 
to hire [the Petitioner] and film [eight] additional commercials." Although both letters speak generally 
to the success of the commercials, they do not show to what extent that the Petitioner's acting in the 
commercials earned him national or international acclaim. For instance, the letters and other evidence 
in the record do not provide further explanation of the award, the award nominations, the Petitioner's 
recognition for the award and nominations, details of the online viewership, or the videos' product 
sales. Without farther evidence showing that the Petitioner's acting contributed to the commercials' 
successes of viewership, product sales, and awards, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's acting in the commercials brought him national or international acclaim in his field. 
We note that the letters similarly express the Petitioner's "extraordinary ability" in acting and 
"amazing skills by showcasing characters and speaking [seven] languages." Both letters use identical 
language describing the Petitioner's acting record, "[The Petitioner] ... has won the Jury Prize in 
Ihas acted in major commercials for brands such as: I I 
Ito name a few. He has also guest-starred on the I I on NVC and 
.______________ ___.[ proving that he is on the top of his field." The use of identical 
language and phrasing across the letters suggest that the language in the letters is not the authors' own. 
Cf. Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility 
determination in asylum proceedings based in part on the similarity of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. 
U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (concluding that an immigration judge may 
reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is 
the common source). Because the letters appear to have been drafted by someone other than the 
purported authors, the letters possess little credibility or probative value. In evaluating the evidence, 
the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. The Petitioner offers other letters of recommendation generally 
referencing his acting in the I I online commercial videos, and those letters also use the 
identical language or phrasing described above. Therefore, the similarly worded letters offer little 
credibility or probative value. 
A letter froml ICEO and founder of.________ __. emphasizes that the Petitioner's 
multi-lingual skills and multi-cultural appearance helped him earn his acting role for an I 
advertising campaign, as well as many other acting roles for major brands, includingl.--~------11I I The record also includes photographs depicting the Petitioner 
in advertising campaigns for companies such asI I The letter states that the Petitioner hel~pe-d-th_e_a_g-en_c_y-,-,g-a-in-ec_o_n_o_m-ic_a_ll_y_a_n_d_h-av_e_a-[s-i~c] 
strong reputation with billion-dollar companies likel 1-... [the Petitioner] was chosen as the 
actor ... performing the lead and critical role in the advertisement, proving that he is an actor in the 
[sic] top-of-his field." Although the letter states the Petitioner is at the top of his field, it does not 
explain how his acting in the I I and other advertising campaigns shows his national or 
international acclaim. While his acting helped his talent agency gain financial and reputation benefits, 
the record does not show that his acting in the campaigns demonstrate him being at the top of his field. 
Another letter from I I CEO and founder of video production company,~!---~ 
similarly explains hiring the Petitioner to act in a pharmaceutical company's commercial because of 
his "unique talent of speaking several languages" and his ability to help the company produce videos 
in seven languages "that can reach out to all minority groups and patients in the United States." Also, 
a letter froml Ia casting director and owner ofl Iexplains hiring the 
8 
I Petitioner for the pharmaceutical campaign because of his "international look that made him the 
perfect actor to fill the role of the [d]octor." A letter from I I a cinematographer and 
founder ofl !Entertainment, details hiring the Petitioner for a lead acting role for Children's 
HospitalI I fundraising campaign because of his "extraordinary acting talents and u,.,·.........,.,....., 
skills ... to portray so many diverse characters with different language skills". And a letter from Ia film producer, explains hiring the Petitioner for a lead acting role for the film.__ ___ ___. 
uses wording similar to the other recommendation letters that the Petitioner has "extraordinary talents, 
diverse creativity and diverse cultural language skills" who "can act and portray ... many different 
characters from difterent countries and cultures." As previously explained, although the Petitioner's 
language skills and appearance have helped him earn acting roles, the letters do not elaborate on the 
Petitioner's acting and to what extent his unique acting skills have earned him national or international 
acclaim in his field or show that he is at the top of his field. 
The record contains evidence related to the Petitioner's compensation for his work as an actor. For 
example, a letter describing future projects notes that the Petitioner would be paid above SAG-AFTRA 
acting performance rates, as well as pay statements and checks from various commercials. However, 
the Petitioner does not explain how the evidence demonstrates acclaim within the field or recognition 
within the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. 
See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 18, 2024 In Re: 31497965 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer of a beverage company, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of Ia U.S. beverage 
company manufacturing and distributing energy drinks. He states that he has extraordinary ability as 
an entrepreneur who is an "expert on Caribbean trade, with specialized knowledge in the coconut 
industry." He has served in various roles as a trade advisor, consultant and ambassador. The Petitioner 
intends to continue operating his business in the United States and claims it will substantially benefit 
the U.S. economically, as well as demonstrate diversity as an ethnic minority entrepreneur and develop 
trade opportunities between the U.S. and the Caribbean. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he met three of these criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor; 
• (iii), Published materials about him in major trade or professional publications or other 
major media; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record was not sufficient to establish that he met any of the claimed criteria. The Director allowed the 
Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence in attempt to demonstrate that he satisfied at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In response to the RFE, 
the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and again asserted that he meets the claimed criteria 
above, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (viii). 
2 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that he met one of 
the ten criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), with published materials about the Petitioner in major trade or professional 
publications or other major media. While we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has met this 
criterion, we conclude that the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner meets at least two 
additional criteria. Therefore, he does not meet the threshold for a final merits determination on 
whether he can establish that he is an individual ofextraordinary ability in the field ofCaribbean trade, 
the coconut industry and entrepreneurship. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least two additional alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, he maintains his prior claim that he meets the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (viii), for lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, and 
performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. For the 
reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least two more 
categories of evidence. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based on four awards: 
• First prize award for Entrepreneurial Spirit from the 
1 12012; 
• First prize award at thel I2015;
• Second place winner of the 2019; and 
• I I Colombia, 2019. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards were national or 
international in scope or demonstrated recognition for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director incorrectly analyzed his field of expertise as being a 
CEO in the beverage industry and clarifies that each award was given based on his expertise in 
entrepreneurship. 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was awarded first prize for Entrepreneurial Spirit in 
the 2012 Evidence in the record describes! las a 
private initiative promoting entrepreneurship in Colombia. The Petitioner states that he was awarded 
a monetary prize based on his innovation of a "zero-residue business model ... bottling fresh coconut 
water, making soaps with the flesh/coconut milk, and using the husks as natural fertilizers." A letter 
from the entrepreneurship manager of states that the Petitioner was one of 5,000 
candidates. However, the evidence in the record does not state the criteria used to grant the award or 
explain the national or international significance of the award. On appeal, the Petitioner states that 
this award was national in scope and was related to his field of expertise in entrepreneurship. 
3 
However, he does not provide any additional evidence to establish that this award meets the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was awarded first prize at the 
I I in 2015. The Petitioner states that he was awarded a monetary prize "as eco entrepreneur 
in the business category 'water, alternative energies and handling of solid residues' for [his] rainwater 
bottling pilot." The record includes a certificate and a photograph of a trophy, as well as other 
information in a foreign language without an English translation. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner states that 
the award "may have been at a lower level ... but it had the backing of an international organization: 
thel IThe evidence in the record does not provide information 
about the award, including the criteria used for judging, the national or international significance of 
the award, or the number of awardees or prize recipients. Nor does the evidence demonstrate the 
support of an international organization as the Petitioner asserts. The Petitioner must support 
assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 
376. The Petitioner does not provide any additional evidence to establish that this award meets the 
plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was a second-place winner of the 
I in 2019. The Petitioner states that in Texas and 
northeastern Mexico. He states that he was awarded a monetary prize for his beverage line, as well as 
a five-year exclusivity contract and recognition from the Governor of Texas, the Texas House of 
Representatives and the Commissioner of the Texas Department of Agriculture. The record includes 
copies of certificates for the award and evidence that the Petitioner's business received the monetary 
award and contract with the supermarket. The record also includes a letter from the I Isourcing 
team stating that the Petitioner was selected as one of 20 finalists out of 842 submissions. On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that the award "may have been at a lower level (U.S. State-Texas), but this award 
was awarded by a major U.S. retailer." The evidence in the record does not provide information about 
the award, including the criteria used for judging, the national or international significance of the 
award, or the number of awardees or prize recipients. Nor does the evidence include information 
about I Ito support the Petitioner's assertion that it is a major U.S. retailer. The Petitioner does 
not provide any additional evidence to establish that this award meets the plain language of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was a ant on I I Colombia in 2019. 
The Petitioner states that 
He states that he secured 
an investment deal on the show for his energy drink, The 
record includes photographs of the Petitioner on the show with links to the video. On appeal, the 
Petitioner states that hisl lprize was national in scope and is related to his field of expertise 
in entrepreneurship. 
1 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
4 
The evidence in the record does not establish that the Petitioner is the recipient of a prize or award 
based on his appearance onl I Nor does the record document the criteria used for judging, 
the national or international significance of the award, or the number of awardees or prize recipients. 
The record does not include evidence such as a statement from the show's producers documenting that 
the Petitioner was the recipient of an award for excellence. Nor does the record include a statement 
from the Petitioner's I !explaining why he chose to invest in the Petitioner's product or other 
evidence explaining how this investment has national or international significance. The Petitioner 
does not provide any additional evidence to establish that this award meets the plain language of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person."' Id. 
The Petitioner points to the following roles as evidence that he meets this criterion: 
• Trade advisor with the I 
• Ambassador of the and 
• Consultant with the _________________ 
The Director's analysis of this criterion focuses on evidence in the record relating to the Petitioner's 
business,! Iand his role as CEO. The Director concluded that, although the Petitioner 
established that he performs in a leading role in the company, the evidence did not establish that the 
company has a distinguished reputation. However, the Director did not consider other evidence in the 
record, including the Petitioner's cover letter submitted with the initial filing and his response to the 
RFE, that the Petitioner's claim under this criterion was not based on his role as CEO of his company. 
Rather, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner provided evidence of his roles with I I and 
the I I in support of this criterion. 
5 
The record includes a letter dated March 2011 from the general secretary of the attesting to the 
Petitioner's role as "Advisor in the Directorate ofTrade and External Economic Relations Department 
at I I for the past three years." The letter describes the as "an international organization 
based inl lwhich serves twenty-five member states and three associate members, as well 
as observer countries through consultation, cooperation and concerted action in the areas of trade, 
transport, sustainable tourism and natural disaster risk reduction." On appeal, the Petitioner states that 
he was nominated to the position by the Colombian government based on his merit and expertise in 
Caribbean trade. He states that during this tenure, he led events to promote trade, including an event 
that generated over $1.3 million in business. The record includes a report ofthis event and newspaper 
articles listing the Petitioner as an attendee. However, the evidence in the record does not describe 
the Petitioner's job duties as trade advisor for Nor does the evidence support the Petitioner's 
assertion that he was nominated by the Colombian government or led events promoting trade. The 
Petitioner must support assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. The Petitioner has not established that his role as trade advisor with 
the meets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner states that he was named as the ambassador and sole representative of his area for the 
2020 He describes the event as an annual summit attended by "senior 
government representatives, policy makers, and intergovernmental organizations" to "connect islands 
around the world and share ideas, best practices and solutions." The Petitioner states that through his 
participation in the summit he responded to "spontaneous questions from participants about or in 
relation to [his] archipelago." The record includes a copy of an email addressed to the Petitioner 
identifying him as the ambassador for the I I However, the 
record does not include any other evidence related to thel lor the Petitioner's role 
as ambassador. The Petitioner has not established that his role as ambassador of the I I 
I Imeets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner also states that he was solicited to fill the role of consultant with the United Nations 
in 2021 based on his ex ertise in the coconut ind us tr and the U.S. market. Evidence in the record 
describes the 
The record includes approved contracts for 
services between the Petitioner and the United Nations appointing him for limited service as a 
contractor with the from September 2, 2021 to March 31, 2022. The record also includes a job 
description for the role, listing the Petitioner's responsibilities as conducting market and distribution 
channel research for projects on coconut in the United States, providing recommendations for 
campaigns to raise awareness of coconut agriculture, and delivering presentations for online events. 
However, the record does not include evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's role with the 
was leading or critical. The plain language of the job description does not indicate that the role of 
consultant is a leader within any department or division of the TheThe Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence of his contributions as a consultant or established that they are of significant importance to 
activities. The Petitioner has not established that his role as consultant with the meets the 
plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director erred in analyzing other evidence in the record not specifically intended to establish that 
the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), in performing in leading or critical 
roles for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. However, upon review of 
6 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that the Petitioner's intended evidence, including the Petitioner's 
statements on appeal, are insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
Although the Director erred in the analysis of the evidence in the record relating to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not remand the matter for further consideration because the Petitioner has 
not overcome the basis for denial regarding the other claimed criterion. As such, he has only met one 
criteria. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
B. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that he 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully 
address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a 
finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 2 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance ofhis accomplishments as an entrepreneur and expert in Caribbean 
trade and the coconut industry is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 This review included consideration of testimonial evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatory 
criterion, such as letters ofrecommendation and evidence of business grants supporting the Petitioner's company. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 18, 2024 In Re: 31839868 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will grant the motion 
and remand the matter for further proceedings. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision. Specifically, the Petitioner 
disputes our conclusion that the record contains discrepancies relating to his compensation. 
A petitioner can establish extraordinary ability by submitting evidence that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and then establishing , through a final merits 
determination, that the individual has achieved sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had met only one of the ten criteria, relating to performing 
in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. In 
our appellate decision, we granted a second criterion, relating to published material about the 
individual in professional or major trade publications or other major media. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (iii). 
The outcome of the appeal hinged on 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the 
individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in 
relation to others in the field. 
In our December 2023 appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of salary 
survey data, and did not question the reliability or accuracy ofthat data. Instead, our decision focused 
on perceived discrepancies in the Petitioner's own salary information. 
We agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had submitted two different sets of salary figures for 
2019-2021. We determined that the discrepancies cast doubt on the reliability and credibility of the 
financial evidence in the record. We cited Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988), which 
requires a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies with independent, objective evidence pointing to where 
the trnth lies. We concluded: "Because the Petitioner has not reliably established his annual income 
amounts, he has not demonstrated that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the 
business management field." 
Our conclusion about the reliability of the Petitioner's evidence rested significantly on an apparent 
discrepancy in the Petitioner's tax documents for 2021. In particular, tax documents submitted with 
the petition show a ¥730, 715 tax payment on June 6, 2021, that does not appear on revised documents 
submitted in response to a request for evidence. We stated that "[t]he second tax record set supports 
the Petitioner's claimed income amounts" for 2019 and 2020, but that "his claimed annual income 
amounts for 2019 and 2020 ... lack credibility" because the perceived discrepancy in the 2021 
documents raised broader questions of credibility. 
Review of the record shows that the June 2021 tax payment consistently appears in the Chinese­
language tax documents the Petitioner has submitted. The payment is missing only from the English 
translation of one of those documents. Thus, the major discrepancy we identified in our decision is 
attributable to a translation error. 
The Petitioner's submission of two different sets of salary figures raises questions. But we must also 
acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of tax documents to corroborate the second version of those 
figures. Even if there is some doubt as to the trnth, if the petitioner submits relevant, probative, and 
credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably" trne, 
the petitioner has satisfied the standard of proof. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 T&N Dec. 369, 376 
(AAO 2010). Also, the difference between the two sets of figures does not appear to be so great that 
the Petitioner's salary would qualify as high under one set but not the other. 
Upon reconsideration, we conclude that the Petitioner has met his burden of proof to meet a third 
regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). This, by itself, is not sufficient to establish eligibility 
2 
for the highly restncttve immigrant classification he seeks. The next step ts the final merits 
determination described in Kazarian. 
The Director's decision denying the petition did not include a final merits determination. Therefore, 
we will remand the matter to the Director for such a determination. The Director must evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 18, 2024 In Re: 32029226 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner, a native ofSouth Africa and citizen ofAustralia, describes himself as "an innovative singer 
and songwriter of Pop R&B music" and "a proven leader at the top of the singing and songwriting field, 
combining several disciplines to create new types of music for the public and his fans." The Petitioner 
stated: "I wrote and sang the hit song, which received GOLD Record Recognition. 
I also wrote and sang [the] hit son which ranked in the Top 20 on the charts. I 
wrote, sang, and produced which ranked as a #1 hit on the charts in the United States." The 
Petitioner stated that he "was recognized by the Grammys governing body" and "performed duets 
collaborating with global stars _______________ When he filed the petition 
in June 2022, the Petitioner was in the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only of the criteria, pertaining to display. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, relating to prizes and leading or critical 
roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding published material and 
contributions, and therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on those issues. 1 
Below, we will discuss the two criteria disputed on appeal. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2731201 1, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a photograph showing three medals and a plaque, all showing a logo that reads 
"World Championships Performing Arts." The plaque also reads "Champion of the World 2009." 
Another photograph shows the Petitioner holding a trophy with the inscription "World Championships/ 
2009 I Grand Champion Performer of the World." 
The Petitioner submitted a screenshot of an email message indicating that he had been nominated for an 
unspecified award from the Australian Independent Music Awards. The Petitioner submitted no further 
materials from the awarding entity to identify the award or specify whether the Petitioner had won it. 
The Recording Industry of South Africa awarded the Petitioner a "Certified Gold Award" recognizing 
sales of 15,000 copies of the Petitioner's single I I The materials do not identify any 
criteria for the award other than sales figures. The regulation does not indicate that every prize or award 
satisfies the criterion; the prize or award must be "for excellence in the field of endeavor." The record 
does not show that the awarding entity equates sales or popularity with excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserted that he was among "the top 50 finalists" onl lin 2005, but he 
submitted no evidence from the producers of that program to confirm the claim or to establish that he 
received a prize or award as a result. Instead, the Petitioner submitted a recent letter from his manager, a 
recent letter from his record producer, and copies of online articles published in 2017 or later, all referring 
to his claimed appearance onl _but producing no corroborating documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence to show that his 
claimed prizes and awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and that the prizes are for 
excellence in his field. The Director also observed that the photographs of "a 2009 'Champion of the 
World' award" do not show that the Petitioner received the award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he "provided evidence that he was presented with the 'Champion 
ofthe World' award. The evidence was provided via photographs ofthe award trophy and medals." We 
agree with the Director that these materials do not identify the Petitioner as the winner, and that the 
Petitioner has not established the significance of the award. The Petitioner notes that he also submitted 
"letters from [his] tour manager, talent manager, entertainment marketer, and producer ... , and media 
articles." None of these materials are first-hand evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of the award. The 
writers ofthe letters claimed no involvement with the awarding organization, and they wrote their letters 
several years after the 2009 competition. Likewise, the submitted newspaper and online articles 
discussing the Petitioner's claimed award were all published in 201 7 or later. 
Furthermore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established the significance of the 
claimed award. The Petitioner asserts: 'The World Championships of Performing Arts ... has had a 
tremendous impact in the musical and performing arts industry," and "is referred to as the 'Talent 
Olympics.'" The Petitioner cites no evidence to support these claims except for a footnoted reference to 
the awarding organization's own website. The organization's own promotional materials are not evidence 
ofrecognition outside that organization. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 
2007), aff' d 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we need not rely on an organization's self­
serving promotional claims). The Petitioner has not shown that the World Championships of Performing 
Arts received significant media coverage in 2009, when he claims to have won, or at any other time. The 
assertion that some major celebrities won the same competition does not establish or imply that the award 
3 
enjoys the same recognition as its most prominent winners; that the celebrities are famous because they 
won the competition; or that the celebrities are representative examples of the caliber ofparticipants. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again cites his gold record award, but does not establish that the award is for 
excellence in the field. He also repeats his claim to have been a finalist onl Ibut he identifies 
no evidence in the record that would confirm this claim first-hand or establish that status as a finalist is, 
itself, a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. Much of the 
Petitioner's appellate brief repeats earlier claims and arguments, without addressing specific issues that 
the Director raised in the denial notice. 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof 
regarding the requirements of the criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner asserted that his participation in various tours and competitions amounted to critical roles. 
We will discuss illustrative examples further below, but first we will address a more general point. 
The wording of the regulation requires "a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation." The Petitioner initially listed several tours in which he participated in 
varying degrees, and stated: "it seems evident that roles with distinguished groups of people, tours, or 
festivals should qualify for this criterion as they essentially operate in a similar manor [sic] to 
distinguished organizations." 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner did "not demonstrate how tours or events qualify 
as 'organizations or establishments."' The Director continued: 
Additionally, were we to consider tours or events as organizations or establishments, 
contracted performances are not evidence of a leading role for an organization or 
establishment. You were never an employee of the claimed organizations or 
establishments, you played no role in their business decisions, and you are not a part of 
any distinguished reputation that they may have. Nor does the evidence establish that you 
played a critical role i.e. that you contributed in a way that is of significant importance to 
the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
The Director's reference to "significant importance to the outcome ofthe organization or establishment's 
activities" derives from 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Petitioner's conclusions. Instead, the Petitioner repeats 
several previous claims, adds new ones, and again uses language broader than the regulation, stating that 
"he performed in a critical role for ... distinguished entities and during distinguished events." 
The Petitioner has cited no support for this interpretation ofthe regulation. An entity that organizes tours 
and festivals can, itself, qualify as an organization with a distinguished reputation, but it does not follow 
4 
that the tours and festivals are, themselves, functionally equivalent to organizations with distinguished 
reputations. 
The Director observed that "the provided letters are not from current of former employers and therefore 
have no probative value under this criterion." This conclusion derives from 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l ), which 
requires: "Evidence relating to qualifying experience ... shall be in the form ofletter(s) from current or 
former employer(s)." See also, generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ), which states: 
letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading 
or critical role can be particularly helpful ... , so long as the letters contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the 
organization [or] establishment ... was leading or critical. Evidence of experience must 
consist of letters from employers. 
The Petitioner did not submit confirming evidence from officials of the entities that organized the tours 
and competitions. Instead, the Petitioner relied on recent letters from his manager, record producer, and 
others, along with biographical profiles that appeared in various publications, often years after the events 
the articles describe. Some ofthe articles, in different publications, are identical to one another, consistent 
with a common source such as a promotional press release. Some of the letters, too, include shared or 
very similar language. The identical language in the submitted letters undermines their probative value. 
Identical language in letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into 
question the persuasive value of the letters' content." Hamal v. US. Dep 't ofHomeland Security, No. 
19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021 ). 
Letters from other sources, such as the Petitioner's manager, are not entirely without weight in terms of 
providing context, but the burden is on the Petitioner to establish that those third parties are in a position 
to attest to the critical nature of his roles with organizations and establishments that do not employ those 
third parties. 
Here, we will discuss some examples of the Petitioner's claimed critical roles. The Petitioner asserted 
that he "performed nationwide in Australia during the which featured musiciansI Iand I Promotional materials for the tour depict those four 
musicians, but not the Petitioner. The Petitioner posed with the four singers for a photograph, but the 
record does not provide further context. Materials in the record appear to indicate that that the Petitioner 
performed as an opening act. 
Letters from the Petitioner's tour manager and publicist state that the Petitioner performed on theI lbut do not explain how his role was critical or how the tour itself qualifies as an organization 
or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. The tour manager asserted that the Petitioner's 
"performances were received with rave reviews at every tour stop he performed at," but the Petitioner did 
not submit any published reviews. 
The Petitioner claimed a critical role through "singing and performing forI I The Petitioner stated: "This is a national competition hosting 15,000 artists from 
across the country. The Petitioner was in the top 5 in the nation, out of 15,000 musical competitors" who 
were "competing for the chance to open at thel I for famous singers and bands." The only 
5 
I evidence the Petitioner submitted to support this claim was a letter from his publicist. The Petitioner 
submitted no documentation from the organization that conducted the competition to confirm that he 
participated and placed highly. The Petitioner's wording implies that he performed at thel 
but the record does not support this claim. Aside from the lack of corroboration, the Petitioner 
does not explain how placing highly in a competition amounts to a critical role for the organization that 
conducted that competition. 
The Petitioner also claimed to have been "one of only four featured headliners at 
the biggest musical event in I I South Africa." The Petitioner submitted copies of two 
promotional fliers advertising I 12017" inl 1201 7. On one flier, the Petitioner is the only 
artist named and shown. On the other flier, his name is one of eleven listed. The only venue identified 
on either flier is 
The Petitioner submitted no published materials about the festival and no documentary evidence to 
confirm the significance of the festival. The Petitioner submitted a photograph of a large crowd at an 
outdoor music festival, with large South African flags visible, but the photograph includes no internal 
evidence to identify the occasion or the venue. The Petitioner's tour manager asserted that the Petitioner 
"performed in front ofover 20,000," and that "the ______ ... is of equivalence to a festival 
like Coachella," but the record includes no objective documentary evidence to support these assertions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also cites a letter from an executive of Iwho stated 
that she planned to discuss signing the Petitioner to the label. The Petitioner asserts that this "future 
signing with a music label" constitutes a critical role, but does not explain how the possibility of a future 
contract shows that he has performed in a critical role for a record company that has not yet signed him. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to establish that he meets 
the regulatory requirements to satisfy the criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work that indicates the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
Much of the record consists ofletters from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner in various 
ways. Some ofthese individuals are, themselves, prominent in the music and recording industries, but 
their personal opinions are not evidence of the broader recognition that the classification requires. The 
Petitioner has established individual episodes of success, such as his gold record in South Africa in 
2019, but he has not shown that this success amounts to sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner claims that one of his recordings reached #1 in the U.S. charts, and a list of exhibits 
refers to "Billboard Chart Rankings," but the record shows that the Petitioner's record appeared not 
on any chart published by Billboard, but on the "Emerging 300 Artist" chart on the Upcoming 100 
website. The Petitioner did not establish any affiliation between Billboard and Upcoming 100, nor 
did the Petitioner establish the criteria for inclusion on the "Emerging 300 Artist" chart. 
In all, the record does not have enough first-hand, contemporaneous, documentary evidence to show 
that the Petitioner has reached the top of his field and remained there, to warrant a conclusion that he 
has achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 19, 2023 In Re: 27715487 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
Petitioner did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and six subsequent motions. The matter 
is again before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements ofa motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our appeal decision. In support of the motion, 
the Petitioner relies on a statement , and no other evidence , asserting his eligibility as a martial artist 
of extraordinary ability. While the statement asserts that he meets four of the evidentiary criteria, it 
does not explain or point to any factual, legal, or policy errors in our most recent decision ofFebruary 
10, 2023. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) , (ii). Therefore , we will only consider new evidence to the extent that it 
pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the prior motion. Because the Petitioner has not 
established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to reopen our 
prior decision. 
In addition, the Petitioner's contentions in his current motion merely reargue facts and issues we have 
already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board 
decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition remains 
denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20434723 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 20, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a composer I, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner studied at I College of Music and I I College I Since 2014 he 
ked for I, a company owned by composer 
Many of the Petitioner's documented projects in the record have heen as an assistant t 
Some of their projects are the I _____ an 
1 His most recent work includes composing the score for the feature film 
and the television series! I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (viii), Comparable evidence of a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to published material and 
participation as a judge. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv) by serving as a judge at film festivals in Turkey. For the reasons explained 
below, we do not conclude that he has satisfied the other three claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 The Petitioner is currently in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status, which relates to extraordinary ability. 
Nevertheless, the record ofproceedingforthe approved nonimmigrant petitions are not before us. Also, the nonimmigrant 
and irn migrant categories have different definitions and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the 
field ofarts" in the nonirnmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F.R § 214.2(0 )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, 
"extraordinary ability" reflects thatthe individual is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field. 
2 
Review of the record does not support the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had satisfied the 
requirements of this criterion. 
A number of the submitted articles are not about the Petitioner. Rather, they are about projects on which 
he worked. "The person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published 
material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field" 
may also satisfy the criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. In this instance, the submitted articles mention the Petitioner only briefly, and do not 
include substantial discussion of his work. 
Other submitted articles are about the Petitioner, but the Petitioner has not established that the articles 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications. The submitted 
evidence should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other 
statistics and show who the intended audience is. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asse1is that each article includes "the applicable circulations [sic] figures for print 
publications andnumberof unique visitor[ s] for all online publications," butthe Petitioner did not provide 
this information for every submitted article. Where the Petitioner did provide the information, it is 
incorporated into transcripts or translations, without attribution of the source of the data. Also, these raw 
numbers do not establish that the circulation or readership is high compared to other publications in the 
field, as required. 
The Petitioner also quotes what appear to be various publishers' own promotional material, such as a 
reference to Film.Music.Media as "your premiere destination when it comes to the world of film music." 
A publisher's "self-serving assertion" about its own publication is not sufficient to establish that the 
publication meets the requirements of8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 
SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), ajf'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) 
("The AAO need not, and indeed should not, rely on the [publisher's] self-serving assertion ... to find 
that [the] magazine is a professional or major trade publication"). 
The Petitioner has been the subject of published material, but he has not established that the submitted 
materials meet the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims that this criterion is not readily applicable to his occupation, because musical 
"performances are always considered a critical role for productions or events rather than organizations 
and establishments." The Petitioner therefore asserts that evidence about individual "productions or 
events" is comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner submits letters fron-c=] I land others, asserting that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role by contributing to 
the soundtrack scores for various! I The Petitioner appears to seek to extend the comparable evidence principle bythenassertingthatthe studios that produced or distributed thesel I 
are establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the criterion does not 
readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had made 
valued contributions to various projects, but had not shown his work to be leading or critical for any 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats prior 
assertions and states that the Director erred by not considering the Petitioner's claim of comparable 
evidence. 
Upon consideration of the record, we need not directly resolve the issue of comparnble evidence, because 
the Petitioner has not shown his roles to be leading or critical in the alternative context of individual 
soundtrack projects. 
Letters from I and others establish that the Petitioner has worked primarily as an assistant to I I providing additional music to projects for which I is the credited composer. The 
record shows that most of the Petitioner's film work has been in lesser capacities, belowthatof composer, 
such as the following examples listed on a printout fromIMDb Pro: 
• Soundtrack Producer (uncredited) 
• Score Production Assistant 
• Additional Orchestrator (uncredited) 
• Composer (additional music) 
• Composer (trailer music) 
• Score Production Coordinator 
• Conductor 
• Orchestrator 
• Arranger 
On the IMDb Pro printout, all nine of the projects that credit the Petitioner as the primary composer are 
short films. Theprintoutdoesnotprovide box office figures foranyofthese short films, and the Petitioner 
has not otherwise established that these projects have distinguished reputations. 
notes that the soundtracks for I were nominated for Grammy Awards. The 
Petitioner does not submit any evidence from the Recording Academy to show that the Academy 
nominated the Petitioner, not just I I for these awards. 
The Petitioner has also claimed a leading role as a producer of motion picture soundtrack albums. The 
field of record production is related to, but distinct from, musical composition. The Petitioner has not 
established that production work of this kind demonstrates extraordinary ability as a composer. 
The Petitioner has not established that his subordinate, supporting, and sometimes uncredited work rises 
to the level of being comparable to a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner claims a lead composer credit for projects in thel l but does not establish 
that these projects had even been released at the time he filed the petition. Whatever the prior success or 
reception of earlier l an individual film or television pro gram's reputation and whether it is 
4 
distinguished, cannot be determined before its release. A petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements 
at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R § 103.2(b)(l). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has earned a salary and bonuses from and composing royalties froni I I In 2021, his base salary at was $220,000 per year. In a February 2021 letter, 
agreed to pay the Beneficiary a $400,000 advance on royalties anticipated through March 2026. 
Documentation in the record indicates that the Petitioner received payment in the following amounts: 
I I 
2014 $15,006 (October- December) 
2015 47,504 
2016 67,860 
2017 96,156 
2018 133,324 $25,088 
2019 104,191 38,468 
2020 82,269 67,842 
2021 125,294 (January-July) 
The Petitioner did not establish the amount of royalties already paid to him under the terms of the 2021 
agreement with I land the Petitioner did not provide any basis for comparison to show that his 
remuneration in the form of royalty payments are significantly high in relation to others in his field. 
The letter from describes the Petitioner as a "composer, orchestrator and arranger," but the record 
indicates that the Petitioner has also acted as a producer at recording sessions. The record does not 
distinguish between the Petitioner's earnings as a composer and as a producer. Although there is some 
overlap, the two occupations are distinct. Remuneration paid to the Petitioner for his work as a producer, 
such as session fees, would not represent remuneration for work in the field of composition. 
To indicate that his salary from has been high in relation to others in the field, the Petitioner has 
submitted statistics from various online sources, including examples described further below. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the submitted salary information was too broad to 
provide reliable information specific to the Beneficiary's intended employment. The Director stated: 
"Average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that theDirectorselectivelyintetpreted the submitted evidence, and "only 
considered the average salaries and not the comparable salaries at low, medium as well as high levels for 
comparison purposes." But it is not apparent that the Petitioner submitted an adequate basis for 
comparison with respect to composers in the motion picture industry. The figures submitted by the 
Petitioner are not consistent from one source to the next: 
5 
• 0 * NET Online indicates that "Music Directors and Composers" in California earn an average of 
$57,050 per year, and 10% of them earn $139,620 or more; 
• Payscale indicates that the median base salary for composers in the United States is $51,000 per 
year, and 10% earn$122,000 ormore; 
• ZipRecruiterindicates that film composers in I California, earn an average of $58,536 
per year, and 10% of film composers throughout the United States earn $104,000 or more; and 
• Recruiter shows an average income of $71,190 for "Music Composers and Arrangers" in 
California. 
Most of the sources do not distinguish between film score composers and other types of composers and 
songwriters, and it is not evident that the private recruitment and job search websites drew on a large, 
representative data pool. The Payscale figures are "[b]]ased on 50 salary profiles." Recruiter indicates 
that Nevada is the highest-paying state for composers, at $99,210 per year. Only Zip Recruiter provides 
figures specific to film composers, and that website indicates that three of the ten highest-paying cities for 
film composers are in Massachusetts, a state not among the 14 states listed by Recruiter as the highest­
paying. The inconsistent information provided does not appear to be sufficient to show that the 
Beneficiary earns a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to composers in the 
motion picture industry. 
ect we note that the Petitioner has done most of his work for a company owned by fellow film 
composer I I has provided statements in support of the petition, butthe record does 
not sho compensation, which might have provided a useful benchmark. 
The Petitioner asse1is that the Director "erroneously claimed that no corroborating evidence was 
submitted by unilaterally claiming it to be a temporal element to the criteria for high salary which is in 
direct conflict to the plain language of the statute." While the Petitioner does not elaborate, the Petitioner 
appears to refer to this passage from the Director's decision: 
The evidence appears to show that the beneficiary's earnings may be higher than average 
compared with data from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics and O-Net online. However, 
corroborative evidence showing that the wage rate is high relative to others working in 
the field was not provided. In addition an accountant indicated that the beneficiary has 
been employed with since on sic October 4, 2014. 
However, evidence of earnings from ____________ prior to 2021 
was not provided. 
This passage is not a ground for denial of the petition. Rather, it is a quotation from the RFE, which the 
Director repeated as part of the chronological narrative of the record. The accountant's initial letter 
attested to the Petitioner's employment from 2014 to 2021, but did not specify how much he earned 
during that time. The Director went on to acknowledge the Petitioner's later submission of a new letter 
from the same accountant, specifying what paid the Beneficiary each year. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. Because royalties are not a salary, we would 
not compare royalty figures to salary figures. As noted above, the Petitioner did not provide any basis 
6 
for comparison to show that his remuneration in the form of royalty payments are significantly high in 
relation to others in his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l)(A) of the Actand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has worked on some high-profile projects for major film studios, in positions of 
increasing responsibility, under the tutelage of I I In this way he may be said to be 
progressing toward the top of his field. Butemploymentwith major studios is not inherently sufficient 
evidence that one has reached the top of that field; a comparison of the Petitioner's credits and 
achievements with those of an Academy Award nominee, shows that while the Petitioner 
is rising in his field, he has not yet established the sustained national or international acclaim required 
to show that he has reached the top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8514498 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 21, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer scientist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a data scientist at .__ ___________ _. inD 
~--~' California. Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although we agree with Director that the Petitioner demonstrated that she authored 
scholarly articles in professional publications, for the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with 
the Director's decision relating to the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets three additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on memberships with the scholarships 
committee for the Association for Computing Machinery- Council on Women in Computing (ACM­
CWC) and with the program committee for the Association for Computing Machinery -Conference 
on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, and Health Informatics (ACM-CBCBHI).1 In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (indicating that associations may have multiple levels of 
memberships, and the level of membership must show that the alien was judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
2 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 2 
Regarding ACM-CWC's scholarships committee, the Petitioner submitted bylaws reflecting that 
successful candidates "must have achieved lasting impact on the field of computing, in terms of both 
technical and leadership contributions." Moreover, "there must be clear and compelling evidence that 
the individual has significantly influenced the directions of groups and organizations beyond those 
where he/she was employed." In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter froml I 
for ACM-CWC, who referenced the bylaws, indicated that nomination required by a senior 
professional member and endorsement from five members, and stated that "[ n ]ominations and 
endorsements should address specific accomplishments that demonstrate innovation, originality and 
creativity; technical leadership resulting in new concepts, products or systems that advance the state 
of computing; leadership roles providing evidence of outstanding service to ACM and/or the broader 
computing community." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the scholarships 
committee's membership requirements are tantamount to "outstanding achievements" consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner did not show that theoretical or practical 
accomplishments through innovation, originality, and creativity; technical leadership resulting in new 
concepts, products, or systems advancing computing; or leadership roles to ACM or computing 
community necessarily constitutes outstanding achievements of its members. Although the 
scholarships committee requires candidates to attain a certain degree of accomplishments, the 
Petitioner did not establish that those criteria rise to a level of outstanding achievements. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership. 3 In I I' letter, she claimed that "[ m ]emberhipl 
decisions are made by a grouR of 13 prominent names in the CS field" and listed four individuals I 11 ~ I l and I I with their positions. The 
bylaws, however, do not indicate that "[m]embership decisions are made by a group of 13 prominent 
names." Instead, the bylaws reference the general "Scholarships Committee," such as the 
"Scholarships Committee evaluates each nomination in [sic] independently of other nominations," the 
"Scholarships Committee relies on each candidate's nominator and endorsers to provide the 
information necessary to make an informed evaluation," and "[e]ach nominator will be notified of the 
committee's decision." Regardless, the Petitioner also submitted profiles for three of the individuals 
mentioned by from ACM-CWC's website and a screenshot profile from ieee-vics.org for 
~----~ While the profiles contain the individuals' education and employment history, honors 
and awards, and roles with ACM-CWC, the Petitioner did not establish how the evidence reflects the 
national or international recognition of the individuals as experts in the field. The Petitioner, for 
example, did not show the field's acknowledgment of their standings or statuses as experts. 
As it relates to ACM-CBCBHl's program committee, the Petitioner references a letter from!~ __ __. I I who described the 2018 ACM-CBCBHI Conference as "a premier dissemination forum 
for interdisciplinary research linking computer science, mathematics, statistics, biology, 
bioinformatics, biomedical informatics, and health informatics." Moreover, I I stated that 
2 Id. at 6. (providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate 
that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon 
recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8 
3 
"[c]ommittee members are responsible to: a) assist Conference Chairs in soliciting abstracts, b) 
participate in the manuscript review processes, c) serve as a session chair as requested by conference 
chairs, and d) guide and shape program content." Moreover,! I indicated that that the Petitioner 
"was extended an invitation for Membership to the ACM-BCB Program Committee because she is an 
outstanding scientist in this area and has made significant contributions to the area." Although she 
described the responsibilities of committee members and justified why she chose the Petitioner, D 
Ddid not explain whether program committee membership requires outstanding achievements of its 
members. MoreoverJ ldid not show that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide any bylaws or 
other supporting evidence demonstrating the requirements for program committee membership. Here, 
the Petitioner did not establish that outstanding achievements are an essential condition for 
membership, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts eligibility for the first time on appeal based on senior membership with the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and submits an email, dated October 2019, 
congratulating her on "elevation to the grade ofIEEE Senior member." The record, however, reflects 
that the Petitioner filed her petition in October 2018, a year prior to her senior IEEE membership. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Accordingly, we need not address 
this eligibility claim on appeal. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed earlier, the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires an alien to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specialization.4 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that she meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner claimed that "she has been invited to review manuscripts for various scientific 
conferences within her field to determine if the submissions should be accepted for 
inclusion/publication." Moreover, she asserted that "[a]s a Committee Member for various 
conferences, she was also responsible for reviewing submissions and successfully completed those 
reviews." Although she submitted evidence listing her on committees or inviting her to review papers, 
the Petitioner did not establish that she participated in the manuscript or paper review process. In 
order to meet this criterion, an alien must show that she has not only been invited to judge the work of 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6-7. 
4 
others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization. 5 
Specifically, the Petitioner provided documentation listing her as part of the i I Program 
Committee" of th~ I International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous Computing, Systems, 
Services, and Technologies, the committee of the I ~ 
Celebration, and the 'I !Joint Summits on Translational Science Reviewers" at th~ .... --~ 
Annual Joint Summits on Translational Science. The evidence, however, does not indicate whether 
she actually reviewed manuscripts or otherwise participated as a judge of the work of others. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided emails inviting her to join committees or to revieT :apr- For 
example, "[ w ]e would like to invite you to join the program committee of ACM-BCB ' "[y Jou 
were invited to be a part of the review process because of your expertise and backgroun m achine 
Leaming and AI, and it has been crucial in creating a meaningful, valuable program to be presented 
a~ I' "[ t ]hank you for volunteering to be a reviewer for thq 12018 Informatics Summit 
.... Please complete your reviews by Thursday, November 9th," "[w]e would like to invite you to 
be a reviewer for the 20171 IJoint Summits on Translational Science," "[ c ]ould you please write 
a review for me on the following paper submitted to ACM-BCB 0' and "[ t ]hank you [for] signing 
up to be an ACM Poster Judge volunteer! ... We have selected you to judge the first round of the 
competition." Although the emails requested her to judge or review, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that she actually completed the judging or review requests. 
Likewise, as mentioned under the membership criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter from!._ __ ~ 
who indicated that one of the responsibilities of a committee member is to "participate in the 
manuscript review processes." Howeve~ did not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually 
reviewed manuscripts. Moreover, whilc===fdescribed why the Petitioner was chosen for the 
committee, including the claim that she "has ~d 20+ papers and abstracts and 200 + 
internationally received scholarship applications,'l____J did not explain how she was aware of the 
Petitioner's judging experience and did not include detailed, corroborating information such as paper 
titles, dates, and conferences. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the 
Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
The Petitioner argues that membership on the scholarships committee of the ACM-CWC requires a 
"lasting impact on the field of computing, in terms of both technical and leadership contributions," 
and "there must be clear and compelling evidence that the individual has significantly influenced the 
directions of groups and organizations beyond those where he/she was employed." According toO D the scholarships committee chose her for membershi because the Petitioner "designed an 
innovative modelin and simulation tool to stud hat "can 
help visualize the.__ _________________ __. and "can reduce the time and 
resources used in the wet lab as well as helping predicting the composition of the optimal surface that 
will yield minimal number I I on surface with maximal percentage o~ I' 
( emphasis added). Here, I I speculates on the potential of the modeling and simulation tool 
rather than showinl how the field already recognizes it as a contribution of major significance. 
Moreover, although I claimed that "[t]he tool has been used by 5 research labs and has helped 
reduce the time and resources," she did not demonstrate that the use of the tool in five research labs 
rises to a level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner contends that "her work presented at many academic conferences is further 
evidence of the significance of her work and it's [sic] impact on the field of computer science," and 
"[t]he originality of her work is confirmed by the fact that numerous the numerous [sic] prestigious 
journals and conference proceedings that have published her articles will only accept original research 
for publication." While publication or presentation may show originality of work, it does not 
automatically establish the major significance of it. 7 Furthermore, the Petitioner does not further 
explain how publication of her articles or presentation of her work at conferences demonstrates that 
the field views her research to be an original contribution of major significance. 8 Moreover, 
publications that bear a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch in the field or that every article published 
in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications 
and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that publication or presentation alone 
demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 Although not argued on appeal, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted screenshots from Google Scholar showing 
the citation of her written and presented work by others with her highest cited article receiving 14 and her highest cited 
conference proceeding receiving 9. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's research or work. However, the Petitioner did not show that the number of citations for any of her published 
articles or conference proceedings are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did 
not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to her work. For example, she did not demonstrate that these 
citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly 
significant. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the 
field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the 
field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that "industry experts and academics have offered their professional 
opinions regarding [her] contributions and all conclude that she has made numerous significant 
contributions to the field that are original." The record contains reference letters that generally recount 
the Petitioner's research and findings and indicate their publications in journals or presentations at 
conferences. Although they reflect the novelty of her work, they do not sufficiently articulate how her 
research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises 
to the level of major significance required by this criterion. For instance, I !discussed the Petitioner's "novel computational modeling appro._a_c_h_t_o_i_d-en-t-if_y_a_n_d-to_c_o_u_n_t_e__,r 
the effects of.__ _________ __. supply chain."9 While,__ _____ ----.-_____.stated that 
"it resulted in a peer-reviewed publication in [an] international conference," he did not explain the 
influence in the overall field or even if ~.__ _____ ..... ~as ever utilized the computer model. 10 
Again, publication or presentation alone is not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Moreover, the letters speculate on the possibility of having an impact at some point in the future, such 
as: "[ w ]e believe that models like this have the potential to contribute to cancer research," [i]n fitture, 
this study can also play an important role in building a genome-scale computational model of a cell in 
the.future," "[the Petitioner's] computational model can be used to predict the behavior ... creating a 
platform to assist in the development of drugs," and "such relationships will be valuable for 
determining the right personalized based on patient's! lprofile"I l 
"computational models ... have the~otential to contribute to biomedical research," and "[h ]er models 
can also be used to predict behavior . I: "[h ]er model can help in predicting the 
composition of an optimal surface with I properties," and "[t]his shows that in 
silico experiments [it] can significantly reduce the time and cost for wet lab ex erimentation, and they 
can accelerate research on biomaterials associated infections" ; and "[t]he model 
can help visualize the ' and " t he com utational model 
built can reduce the time and resources used in the wet lab"~ _________ __,· ( emphasis 
added). While the Petitioner's models and work may show promise, the letters do not establish how 
her work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, 
potential impacts. Here, the significant nature of her work has yet to be determined. 
Similarly J I indicated that he selected the Petitioner's "paper as the most notable 
paper in 'Year in Review' session at the 20181 ] 
annual symposium," and he "concluded that many oncologists, clinical scientists and testing labs will 
be interested in these results and use them to improve their own reports and standardized 
documentation." ( emphasis added). Although he stated that thel I annual symposium is online 
suggesting media coverage! !speculated on others being interested rather than explaining 
how the field already views the paper as a contribution of major significance, as well as any widespread 
attention it received from being online. 
9 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
7 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact her research or work has had on the overall field. 11 Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends to meet this criterion based on her roles with thel !University 
Medical Centerl land ACM-CWC's scholarships committee. As it relates to a leading role, 
the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 14 Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.15 
Regarding! I the Petitioner references a letter froml l:who stated that the medical 
center chose her for its competitive research program at the I I I I "because Of her motivation and expertise to solve health related problems tbrrghl I 
multidisci linary research and her doctoral work in computational cancer research." In addition, 
indicated that the Petitioner worked on a "NIH [National Institutes of Health] funded 
.__ _________ ___. initiative which seeks to create improved tolls and training programs to 
harvest the wealth of information contained in biomedical! I in order to advance our 
understanding of human health and disease," and "helped design and conduct I btudies with 
clinicians to identify top ranked items in molecular diagnostic reports that aid in clinician decision 
making and treatment planning." 
Likewise, the Petitioner references another letter froml I ofl I 
University, who indicated that the "played a Co-Investigator role in obtaining thel I grant," 
and "[t]he success and popularity of this system increased more collaborations among researchers and 
clinicians across i0stit:11tes aud I I leading to additional $15 Million funding for cancer 
research." Further,! ..... ____ _._ stated that the Petitioner "pioneered the design and conducted□ 
11 Although we discussed a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
13 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
is Id. 
8 
~--_.I studies with clinicians to identify top ranked items in molecular diagnostic reports that aid in 
clinician decision making and treatment planning." 
Although the letters point out that the Petitioner published her work in a journal and presented her 
work at conferences, they did not explain how her role as a co-investigator for a project were leading 
or critical t~ The letters, for instance, did not distinguish the Petitioner's position to the other 
positions atL__JsiJnTliua that sb] performed in a leadership position. In fact, when compared to I of~--~University, andl I director ofc=] atl l the 
Petitioner served in a far lesser role as a computational cancer researcher or co-investigator. Moreover, 
the letters did not demonstrate how presenting work at conferences and publishing in a journal reflects 
that the Petitioner performed in a critical or essential role for I I Whilel I indicated 
that the Petitioner's work on thd linitiative eventually led to additional fonding, he did not 
farther elaborate and explain how her contributions rose to a level of significant importance to the 
outcome of1 ts overall activities.16 
letter from who claimed that the Petitioner "plays a critical role in our association." RegardingbiM- 's scholarships committee, the Petitioner references the previously discussed 
However, did not provide any farther explanation to justify her assertion. Instead,! I 
listed the general responsibilities of committee members without showing how the Petitioner 
specifically contributed in an essential or critical way to the committee. Further, I I did not 
articulate how the Petitioner was important to the outcome of the scholarships committee's activities. 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor doesl I letter reflects, that she performed in a 
leading role for the committee. 
Furthermore, although we acknowledge the distinguished reputation oti I the Petitioner did not 
establish that ACM-CWC's scholarships committee enjoys such a similar reputation.17 The Petitioner 
submits screenshots from ACM's website relating to goals and background information relating to 
ACM. Similarly, the screenshots contain mission information about ACM-CWC, including evidence 
that it offers scholarships. Likewise, the Petitioner provides a brochure promoting ACM-CWC and 
advertising the opportunity for scholarships. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the 
evidence shows the reputation of the scholarships committee. In fact, the evidence makes no mention 
of the scholarships committee. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the ACM-CWC enjoys an 
eminent or excellent reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
17 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of·'distinguished" as marked by eminence. distinction, 
or excellence). 
9 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8638300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 21, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in biophysics and biomedicine. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is the founder and chief executive officer ofl I Because 
the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five criteria, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on venture capital funding in his company. 
S ecificall , he rovided a letter from.__ ______ __. president and chief executive officer for 
who stated that "after a thorough due diligence, we decided to invest $3M to fund '----------r'------, 
his new company,.__ __ ---., so it could start its operations in California." In order to fulfill this 
criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he received the venture capital and that it qualifies as a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the biophysics or biomedicine field. 
As indicated inl f s letter,! I received the $3 million venture capital rather than the 
Petitioner. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on 
the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
prizes.2 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received the venture capital funding 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Similarly, the Petitioner references screenshots entitled, "Understanding the EB-1 Requirements for 
Extraordinary Ability," from uscis.gov stating under the awards criterion: 
Note: If you have received venture capital funding or have been awarded a grant, you 
may submit evidence of the funding or grant awarded, including the amount of the funding 
or grant criteria used in awarding the funding or grant. Evidence of other investments, 
such as those from an accredited angel investor, may also be used. 
( emphasis added). 
Once more, the guidance instructs that the self-petitioner or beneficiary received the funding, grant, 
or other investment. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that venture capital funding from I I qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the 
field. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, 
the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Moreover, as indicated above 
in the online guidance, the amount of the funding or grant criteria used in awarding the funding or 
grant may be submitted. Although I I indicated that I I conducted "a thorough 
due diligence," he did not provide detailed, specific information explaining the criteria for the venture ~ funding. Here, the Petitioner did not show the national or international significance of anl I 
L___Jventure capital investment, nor did he establish that his biophysics and biomedicine recognizes 
it as a national or international prizes or award for excellence. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that thd I venture capital investment should also be 
considered as comparable evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 4 A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is comparable to that required under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 5 
Again, the Petitioner claims a venture capital investment that he did not receive. Regardless, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the awards criterion is not applicable to his occupation. General 
assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative 
and should be discounted. 6 Furthermore, the fact that the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies 
the awards criterion is not evidence that a biophysicist chief executive officer could not do so. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not show why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria, 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
5 Id. 
6 Id. 
3 
including this criterion. In fact, as indicative above, the Petitioner claims to meet four other criteria. 
Further, the Petitioner did not explain why the other criteria, such as judging and high salary, do not 
apply to his occupation. 7 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner argues that he satisfies this criterion based on articles posted on findbiometrics.com, 
biometricupdate.com, techworld.com, and digitaljoumal.com. In order to meet this criterion, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 8 
As it relates to the findbiometrics.com article, the Petitioner argues that it "is a transcript of an 
interview with [him], thd IChairmanl I and the interviewer," and "[t]he interviewer 
was the Findbiometricsl f Although the article contains a transcription of 
the interview within the article, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the author of the material. In 1act,
1 while the article confirms thatl I "recently had the opportunity to speak with [them]," 
I I is referenced in the third person, implying that he did not author it. Here, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the author of the article. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory 
requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the findbiometrics.com, biometricupdate.com, and techworld.com articles do not reflect 
published material about the Petitioner; instead, the articles are about l I and biometric 
technology. Although the Petitioner is mentioned as the inventor of the technology or founder of I I the articles discuss the technology. For instance, the Petitioner responds to questions 
regarding 'I I in the findbiometrics.com article such as: "[ c ]an you describe I lfor 
our readers, please?"; "how do you apply to identify and authenticate?"; "[i]t is a very 
fascinating technology, where did the concept for the~---~come from?"; "What are the unique 
benefits of physiological biometrics?"; "[ w ]hat happens in case of a lost phone?"; and [ w ]hy is on­
device authentication important for I Is solution?" Likewise, the articles from 
biometricupdate.com and techworld.com report on I t with the Petitioner quoted regarding 
the technology, but are not about him. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
7 The Petitioner also argues that his "being an invited, main-stage speaker at prestigious conferences" is comparable to the 
display at artistic exhibitions and showcases criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Again, the Petitioner did not show 
that at least three of the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation, he did not explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria, and he did not establish why the evidence he has included is truly 
comparable to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he may use 
comparable evidence to demonstrate his eligibility. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the websites represent professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. While he provided "About Us" and "Media Information" 
screenshots from the websites promoting themselves, the Petitioner did not present objective, 
probative evidence to corroborate the websites' assertions. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007), aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Here, the Petitioner 
did not offer independent evidence, such as website traffic figures from third parties, demonstrating 
the websites' standings as major media. 9 
Finally, the two digitaljournal.com articles are dated after the Petitioner filed his initial petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Accordingly, we need not further 
address these articles on appeal. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that he satisfies this criterion based on patents, research, innovation in building 
clinical studies, and founding of an international nonprofit organization. In order to satisfy the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 10 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues that he provided patents tol I and references his own previously 
submitted letter that states 'I I is currently in discussions with several large technology 
companies, and companies that contract with U.S. Government agencies, to license our patented 
technology" and "[ d]iscussions with companies such as IBM, Dell, Google/ Android, and Verizon, 
take several months of negotiations to work out Master Service Agreements." (emphasis added). In 
addition, he references a letter froml I general manager of I l who indicated 
that the Petitioner's "breakthroughs will strengthen America's cyber security defenses and hardens our 
nation's critical infrastructure," and "[t]he I !technology has been identified as a 'security 
breakthrough' that will protect consumer wireless commerce and finance transactions for over a billion 
mobile devices." (emphasis added). Moreover, he references a letter from I I 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the 
circulation, on-line or in print, is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
professor, who opined that "[t]his technology will impact sectors across a wide spectrum, from 
financial transactions, to personal mobile devices, to national security. ( emphasis added). 
In general, a patent generally recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily 
establish a contribution of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner expresses optimism 
and others opine that his work shows promise, he did not demonstrate how his work already qualifies 
as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. Here, 
the significant nature of his patents resulting inl I technology has yet to be determined. 
Likewise, the Petitioner references two articles from pcmag.com and opusresearch.net. The 
pcmag.com article was published after the initial filing of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). 
Regardless, the articles do not indicate thatl I technology has influenced the field in a 
significant manner to be considered a contribution of major significance in the field. Instead, the 
articles report on newl released technolo ies, such as l lhas develo ed a roduct called the I I that canL_ ___ ....-----------.... ____________ __Jidentify 
and validate the erson" and ' has atented a method to measure the user's 
.__ ______________________ _, by sesnsors [sic] that are already on 
smartphones," without elaborating on its impact in the field. The articles, for example, do not discuss 
the effect o±i I in the field or whether it has been widely applied or used. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the minimal reporting of two articles represents an original 
contribution of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Similarly, as it relates to his patents used byl J the Petitioner references a letter from~I __ _, 
I I an angel investor, who stated that the Petitioner "created an entirely new technology based 
on the mobile phonq I sensor to monitor I I changes," and 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the technolog;y inl I approximately 
six months prior to the filing of the petition. Although! I indicated that "this product is 
now on the market," she did not elaborate and discuss the extent of the usage in the field or how it has 
somehow impacted or influenced the overall field beyond I I 11 In addition, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how FDA approval alone constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that the product "will allow consumers to have direct access to their 
I I and empower consumers to take control ofl ~ (emphasis added). 
Again, the Petitioner speculates on the potential of the product rather than how it has already 
significantly impacted the field in a major way. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner references three articles that reported on possible, upcoming te~es 
ofl I but did not indicate wides read usa e in the field. For instance, "[t]he objectl___J is 
working on is "[ o ]ther sensors, some still 
in development, will measure.__ ________________ _,functions," "[e]ventually, 
both theory and experience show, a product can become pretty good," and "[the] company hopes to 
have the device available as a mass market consumer product" (bits.blogs.nytimes.com). ( emphasis 
added). Moreover, 'I lis attempting to get its device approved as a~--------~" 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
6 
I I so far has been approved by the [FDA] as an 'investigative device, meaning it can be 
used in the context of a study," and "[t]he company is in the midst ofl I trials with the I I device, and has longer term regulatory path to get I I cleared to analyze I I (biogs. wsj .com) ( emphasis added). In addition, 'I I CEO ... expects to 
begin shipping a $199 consumer version of his I I sometime next year, pending [FDA] 
approval," "we're in a transition period because we still need dedicated devices and sensors to bring I ldata to our phones," "[t]he possibilities are incredibly powerful- es]ecially as the device gets 
cheaper," and 1 I appears to be building not just a powerfo] device but a platform of I I data that has the potential to interest many industry players" (fortune.com). 
( emphasis added). Once again, the articles discuss the current development and potential of the 
technology at some point in the future; however, the articles do not reflect that I ~echnology 
through the Petitioner's patents have already been considered majorly significant in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he conducted original research into~ ldrgs for 
cancer therapy and references letters froml I professor, an ~----~ Once 
more, the letters speculate on the potential and possibility without showin the ast or present impact 
of his research. For example, "[h]is first application for th· platform is cancer, 
and I have heard that animal studies are promising" '----~ ( emphasis added). Here, D 
I Is letter indicates that the Petitioner's research is ongoing and is at the animal study stage 
without explaining how the research has affected the field in a major way. Moreover, I I 
speculated that "this opens the way for a truly novel class of drugs that can be applied to specific 
medical problems," "[the Petitioner's] work will have important impacts on a variety of research 
efforts," and "I am confident that this work will revolutionize cancer therapy." ( emphasis added).D I tlid not demonstrate that the Petitioner's cancer research has already been applied to specific 
medical problems, has already important impacts on a variety of research efforts, or has already 
revolutionized cancer therapy. 
Further, the Petitioner claims that he "presented a new and novel way to build clinical studies in 
biophysics, which has since been followed by other scientists" and reference~.__ ___ _____.ts letter. 
According tol I the Petitioner "was so advanced in his reasoning, that even our Faculty 
Dean and most scientists around us, could not believe this" and "[ n ]ow scientists in various countries 
followed him in this, as he was right!" However, did not farther elaborate and explain 
the extent of other scientists following his work. Instead, '-----~ references the publication of 
his research in a journal. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. In addition, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner provided citatory evidence from Google Scholar showing that this paper, published in 2009, 
has received only three citations. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken 
interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown 
that the three citations to his work are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, 
the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his journal article. 
Although his citations indicate a few in the field cited to his article, the Petitioner did not establish that 
these citation numbers rise to the level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion.12 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
7 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that his "original research o reversed the erce tion 
of1 I leading to Balkan Srndromel' and references letters from.__ ________ __, 
professor, andl I former Minister of Defense. The letters, however, do not 
support the Petitioner's assertions, nor do they explain how his contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. Although the letters mention "Balkan Syndrome," they do not discuss that 
'I I reversed the perception ofl I leading to Balkan Syndrome." Instead, 
the letters contain vague and unclear statements. For example,! I claimed that the 
Petitioner "could build the confidence of all external revirwers, so that the results of this study were 
well accepted by all politics and scientists concerned," and._____ I stated that the Petitioner "could 
stop and reverse al lcampaign againstl I and agains~stngovernments involved in 
the Balkanss [sic]" and "[h ]is contribution percolated throughoutc=::]"an'd back then I I was 
hailed as an example amongst other nations." Here, the letters do not sufficiently explain how the 
Petitioner's research reversed the perception ofl I bombing, nor do they contain detailed 
information establishing that his research resulted in a majorly significant contribution in the overall 
field. In addition while the Petitioner indicated that he ublished an article entitled, I I 
'------------------------------------' " in Health 
Physics, the record reflects that it received 18 citations from others. Again, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that such citations are commensurate with an original contribution of major significance 
in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that he "founded an international nonprofit organization to shift public 
health policy towards alternatives tq ~-" Further the Petitioner stater that "ft ]he international, 
non-profit organization that he founded to su ort research and therapy is called I l and stands fo " He submits a screenshot 
from You Tube indicating that "[h ]is widespread advocacy for the use of.__ _ _. is shown by his fairly 
recent Tedx talk." Moreover, he refers td Is letter: 
[The Petitioner's] earlier career also made tremendous advancements in the use of I 1 0 I to thwart the problem ofl I resistance. He conducted clinical 
trials on patients and created an international non-profit to raise the profile of 
I I as a replacemeE§t fo . He have la keyrote address on his work 
at the renowned Pasteur Insf · nd gave a Ted talk on this topic, 
highlighting the work ahead. is now a recognized approach at research 
agencies in both the EU and in the U.S. There is now a growing perception that this 
approach may be a solution for our.__ ______ ~ cns1s. 
Although the documentation indicates his involvement in research in I I and LJ 
therapy, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has made original contributions of maJor 
significance in the field. Here, I I did not elaborate on the Petitioner's "tremendous 
advancements," nor did he explain howl I has impacted or influenced the field in a 
significant way. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish how speaking at the Pasteur Institute or 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
8 
giving a Ted talk resulted in significant or widespread attention. Publications and presentations are 
not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
In addition, the Petitiol er arfues that "[t]he Google Scholar listing of his work shows numerous 
articles with the words or I I' in the title of the article," and "[t]he first two pages 
of the Google Scholar listing show at least seven articles pertaining tol I with citations per article 
ranging from 344 to 69." Once again, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of 
the citations to his articles. For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high 
in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly 
significant. 
As discussed above, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 13 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.14 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
13 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
14 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
9 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, published material, and 
original contributions. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.15 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner documented his experience and conducted research, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-J-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 22, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a D surgeon and researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, asserting that he fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria and has demonstrated extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of R-J-N-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only one 
of the initial evidentiary criteria, scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record 
supports a finding that the Petitioner meets the scholarly articles criterion. For example, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications such as Brazilian 
Journal of Orthopedics and Journal of Spinal Disorders & Techniques. Further, the evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in his field under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) by serving as a member of the resident selection committee at I I 
~--~!Hospital evaluating candidates for admission into its orthopedics residency program. In 
addition, he provided documentation indicating that he has received a high salary relative to other 
orthopedists under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies 
three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
Matter of R-J-N-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he is a physician, medical consultant, and researcher specializing in the 
fields of orthopedics and I I surf ery. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner attended 
medical school at the University of I (1997-2002), completed his orthopedic residency 
training at c:=JMedical School (2002-20r81. and nartic,ated in an "Endoscopy and Minimally 
Invasive I I Surgery" fellowship at the~----~ Hospital in South Korea (2008-2009). 
Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that he worked "' a preceptor doctr ;2006-20161 and assistant 
professor (2009-2016) atc=JMedical School, founder and director of Clinic (2010-
2016), and manager of the Orthopedics Department'sLJProgram at !Hospital 
(2014-2016) in Brazil.2 As mentioned above, the Petit10ner Judged others within the medical field, 
authored scholarly articles, and has commanded a high salary. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive clasyfication See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. As a member of the resident 
selection committee at !Hospital, the Petitioner evaluated candidates seeking admission 
into the Orthopedics Department's residency program. Likewise, he larticirted in the selection of 
medical school graduates for entry into thel I residency at Medical School. While 
the Petitioner was involved in selecting candidates for residency programs at the medical institutions 
where he worked, the record does not show that such judging capacity is indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The evidence does not 
demonstrate, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his service as an 
evaluator of residency candidates for his two employers. Nor has the Petitioner established that being 
given the role of evaluating residency candidates who are in the early stages of their career is reflective 
of extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
2 The Petitioner filed his Form T-140 in July 2018, but has not offered any records of his work experience or medical 
appointments after June 2016. 
3 
Matter of R-J-N-
In addition, the Petitioner presented two certificates stating that he "participated as evaluator of the 
scientific works" forl !University's Medical Congress in 2009 and 2012. These certificates, 
however, did not provide information relating to whose work the Petitioner judged or the specific 
subject matter he evaluated. 3 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that the aforementioned instances of participation as a judge 
place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He has 
not shown, for example, how the number of evaluations or medical conferences he participated in 
compares to others at the top of the field. Furthermore, the record reflects that his participation as an 
evaluator occurred in 2009 and 2012. He did not demonstrate that these two instances contribute to a 
finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59. Moreover, the record does not show the distinction of this conference coordinated by his 
medical institution or that his involvement was indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim placing him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship of scholarly articles does not automatically place an individual at the top of their 
field. Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he coauthored various research articles, 
medical case studies, and book chapters. 4 However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this 
publication record is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of medical 
researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other researchers 
have been influenced by his work. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not shown a level of interest in his published work from others in the 
field that is commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. While the record includes some evidence of citations to his research, the Petitioner did not 
show that these citations represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage 
at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare 
his citation statistics to others in his field of endeavor who are recognized as already being at the top 
3 Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as 
evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served 
in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, 
the Petitioner has not established that his peer review experience places him among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 The record also includes articles the Petitioner wrote tori [ a Brazilian health and wellness portaL but 
these articles are not "scholarly" in nature. Instead, they are written for members of the public at large seeking information 
about medical treatment and care. A scholarly aiticle should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is 
defined as having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 9. 
4 
Matter of R-J-N-
in the field. Nor has the Petitioner otherwise demonstrated that his published work has garnered 
attention at a level indicative of sustained national or international acclaim. 
In addition, although the Petitioner presented "average" wage information from Salario.com.br, 
Exame.abril.com.br, and Terra.com.br showing that he earns a salary that is well above average for 
orthopedists in Brazil, this information is not sufficient to demonstrate that his earnings are tantamount 
to those of an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Without sufficient information or evidence showing the full range of 
salaries for orthopedists, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his earnings represent a level of 
compensation commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the 
additional evidence in the record neither fulfills the requirements of any further evidentiary criteria 
nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's awards 5, he presented letters from the Brazilian Society of Orthopedics and 
Traumatolo SBOT statin that his article entitled I I 
received a "Best Poster A ward" and a "Best Oral 
Theme Award" at the 39th ~----------------------~ m I I 2007. In addition, the record includes information about SBOT ~ web portal, 
including al 12018 announcement and welcome message for the 50thl__J In a · · 
the Petitioner provided a "Call for Papers" and "Paper Submission Guidelines" for the,....;5:....;0:....:t:;:i...-,-~ 
from its website. The record also contains a brief announcement relating to "Ipe Fifth,___ _ ___. Rio 
de Janeiro,! I 1942" printed in Annals o_f Surgery in. I) 942 6 Furthermore 
the Petitioner submitted a 2013 article in Acta Ortopedica Brasileira, entitled [ I 
The abstract for this article states: 
"OBJECTIVE: To quantify the publication rates of papers presented at the 2007 I ) .... 
CONCLUSION: The I !publication rate is lower than 30%. Many of the papers presented at the I ldoes not pass the scrutiny of scient~fic journals and therefore should not be the only source of 
scientific update .... " (Emphasis added). 
While the Petitioner presented information about the 5th and 50thl ltroin its organizers and a 
scientific article analyzing the publication rates of papers from the 39thl Kwhere he received his 
Best Poster and a Best Oral Theme awards), this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate his awards 
from the 39t~ lare nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. In addition, even considering these awards from more than a decade ago, the Petitioner has 
not shown that they are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim or his status among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
5 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
6 This announcement contains an "Editor's Note" stating: "Unfortunately, we received the announcement of this meeting 
too late to include details of the program in ouiO[l 942] issue. However, in the interest of Medicine in South America, 
we are privileged to print the following outline of the Congress." 
5 
Matter of R-J-N-
As further evidence of his awards, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on receiving a fellowship to 
pursue medical and research training at the I I Hospital in South Korea. The record 
contains information from I I Hospital's website stating that its "fellowship program is 
designed to provide fellows with intensive training in diagnosis and treatment ofl I 
and research to meet this growing demand. The fellows will 
~l-ea_rn_t_o_e_v_a-lu_a_t_e_a_n_d_t_r-ea_t_r_o_u_t1-.n-e_a_n_d~complicatedl I .... " The Petitioner has not 
offered sufficient evidence demonstrating that this fellowship for advanced training in his specialty 
rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. Nor 
has he shown that its receipt indicates that he "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the Pe~s memberships 7, he provided ridence indicating that he ij a member of 
SBOT, the BrazilianL__JAssociation, the Society for.__ ________ ____. Surgery, the 
Regional Council of Medicine of Sao Paulo, and the World Institute of Pain. Although the Petitioner 
presented information about these associations, including their admission regulations and bylaws, this 
documentation does not reflect that membership requires outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Rather, the evidence indicates membership is determined 
based on medical training, residency experience, passing examinations, and professional certifications. 
The Petitioner has not shown that these requirements rise to the level of outstanding achievements, 
nor does membership represent an individual who is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field. As the Petitioner has not shown, for example, that he is a member of associations that limit 
membership to individuals with renowned accomplishments, his membership evidence does not 
contribute to a finding that he has sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material8, the Petitioner presented articles in publications such as O Estado de 
Sao Paulo, Caras9, Jornal da Or/a, Jornal de Caruaru, Jornal Local, Mais Equilibria, Saude Em 
Alerta, Rnews, Minuto Biomedicina, Essencia do Corpo, and Melhor Amiga. The record, however, 
does not include sufficient evidence demonstrating that any of these publications are professional 
publications or that they rise to the level of major media.1° Furthermore, these articles are either not 
about the Petitioner, or they do not identify an author. For instance, the article in Jornal de Caruaru 
is about the benefits of exercising 30 minutes each day and only mentions the Petitioner in passing. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he was interviewed aboutl I pain and treatment by Radio 
CBN, BandNews TV, and Radio Globo AM.11 While the Petitioner provided information about these 
7 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
8 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
9 The article in Caras is self-authored by the Petitioner regarding! !treatment; it is not published material 
about him. .__ ___ __. 
10 As evidence regarding the publications in which the above material appeared, the Petitioner offered screenshots from 
Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for each of the aforementioned websites. For example, Similar 
Web reflects that Caras has a global rank of20,224, a country rank of 1,019, and a category rank of 145. The Petitioner, 
however, did not demonstrate the significance of these Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major media. 
11 The transcripts from these interviews indicate that the subject of the programming was I land treatment, and 
not the Petitioner and his particular achievements. 
6 
Matter of R-J-N-
broadcasters, the record does not include sufficient evidence showing that the specific news programs 
or shows in which the Petitioner appeared constitute major media. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that the aforementioned media coverage is reflective of his status as an individual who has 
garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In regard to the Petitioner's contributions to the field 12, he contends that he "was the first surgeon to 
implement a minimally invasive procedure for I I surgery in Brazil." However, according to the 
article he provided in Melhor A1;;a, this '1echniHue was developed and improved by the 
neurosurgeon I I of I Hospital (Seoul)." While the Petitioner may 
have been among the first to introdu: Is procedure in Brazil after receiving training in that 
technique during his I I fellowship in South Korea, the evidence does not show the Petitioner 
devised or substantially improved the aforementioned procedure, or that his specific work otherwise 
rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
The record contains recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's medical training, 
experience in performing advanced surgical techniques, job responsibilities, and professional 
accomplishments, such as completing fellowships, presenting at conferences, and publishing articles 
and book chapters.13 For example,.__ ________ __,, chief professor of ortho~edics and 
traumatology at I I Medical School, indicated that the Petitioner returned from his l.___ __ ___. 
fellowship and "began to perform new procedures with innovative and less invasive techniques 
contributing to the care of our patients and passing on those techniques to our team of specialists in 
LJsurgery, for instance image guideJ !infiltration and microendoscopicl I 
by microscopy." The record, however, does not show that the Petitioner invented or remarkably 
advanced these medical techniques, that his particular surgical methods have affected the orthopedics 
field in a substantial way, or that his work otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
In addition,! ~' head of the orthopedic and surgery department atl I 
Hospital, asserted that the Petitioner "initiated the creation of the Sub-specialty inl !Surgery" at 
that hospital. I I further stated that the Petitioner "participated as one of the mentors for the 
first specialists comping out of the program forl lsurgery." The Petitioner, however, has not 
offered sufficient evidence showing that his work on this project had a meaningful impact to the overall 
field beyond his hospital. The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's 
original contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting his employer. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner are insufficient to show that his achievements 
have been considered by the field to be of major significance. Moreover, they do not contain detailed 
information showing the unusual influence or high impact his contributions have had on the overall 
field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
12 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
13 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Matter of R-J-N-
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 14 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting original contributions of major significance in the field. 15 Here, the 
letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient 
corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, the Petit~Iered documentation indicating that he spoke at the 39th I I and 
presented a course at L___JUniversity of Sao Paulo. While this documentation demonstrates that 
the Petitioner's findings were shared with others and that he taught a course in his specialty, he has 
not established that his activities in-and-of-themselves show the major significance of his 
contributions. Further, the Petitioner has not established that the number of his conference 
presentations and course offerings is significant or demonstrates the required sustained national or 
international acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
With respect to his positions atl I Medical School and I I Hospital, the Petitioner 
contends that his roles for these organizations were leading or critical.16 The record includes letters 
of support from I I and I O l chief and professor ofc::J surgery at D 
Medical School. These letters discuss the Petitioner's duties as a preceptor doctor atc=]Medical 
School training medical students and orthopedic residents, evaluating candidates for residency 
positions, and sharinF, surgical techniques with other specialists. In addition, the Petitioner provided 
letters froml and I ~' coordinator and professor of orthopedics and traumrology I 
atl !Hospital. Their letters describe the Petitioner's duties as a physician at I I Hospital managing and developing thd !Treatment Project, initiating 
instructional programs, preparing treatment protocols, training residents, and mentoring specialists. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his roles for D Medical School and I I I I Hospital reflect his leading or critical role for these organizations overall. As it relates to a 
leading role, he did not provide evidence to establish where his positions fit within the overall 
bi:rarcbv at =Medical School arl I Hospital. Further, although the letters fromD I _ ~ !discuss the Petitioner's projects in theirl I 
orthopedics departments, they do not indicate that his positions were leading or critical for the 
aforementioned medical school or hospital overall. In addition, their letters do not explain how the 
Petitioner's role was leading compared to these organizations' faculty or I depa1ment heads, nor did 
their statements indicate that his work was of significant importance for Medical School and I I Hospital's success or standing so as to demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, while 
the Petitioner provided evidence indicating that I I Hospital has a distinguished 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
15 Id. At 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in paii 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters the repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
16 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
8 
Matter of R-J-N-
reputation, the information froml !Medical School's website alone is not sufficient to show that 
this school has earned a distinguished reputation. 17 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that his employment in the aforementioned roles was reflective 
of, or resulted in, widespread acclaim from his field or was commensurate with being at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his roles 
at c=]Medical School and I I Hospital were representative of sustained national or 
international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." 18 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act; H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-J-N-, ID# 3681821 (AAO July 22, 2019) 
17 Organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
18 In addition, the Petitioner has not offered any evidence of his medical positions or appointments after June 2016. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8631621 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 22, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicate that the Petitioner has adjusted to 
permanent resident status through an unrelated proceeding . The Petitioner filed Form 1-485, 
~tion to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, with receipt number! I 
L__Jon November 23, 2016. That application was approved on September 14, 2017. 
Because the Petitioner's status has been adjusted to permanent resident, further pursuit of the matter 
at hand is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6798659 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 22, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
After issuing a request for evidence in The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the initial 
petition. The Petitioner then filed a joint motion to reopen and motion to reconsider the Director's 
decision, which was subsequently dismissed . The Petitioner now appeals the Director's dismissal of 
these motions. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements . First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor.1 
1 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
In addition, the regulation specifies motion filing requirements, providing that a petitioner must submit 
"a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 
C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that "[a] motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed." 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the Petitioner's initial petition, finding that she had neither demonstrated her 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award, or met any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), as required. The Petitioner filed a joint motion to reopen and reconsider 
the Director's decision, which he subsequently dismissed.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director erred in dismissing these joint motions. She also 
provides additional evidence to establish her eligibility for the classification sought. She submits an 
appellate brief, a copy of the brief filed with her joint motions, certificates of participation for her 
appearance as a guest speaker from the University of I ~ I College of 
Business Administration and for her role as a judge selecting the "best Management and Marketing 
Strategies" advertising forl I of the Philippines, and her Form I-797C, Notice of 
Action, confirming the Nebraska Service Center's receipt of her joint motion filing. The Petitioner 
also submits a supplementary a ellate brief alon with co ies of her certificates of excellence from 
'""F========="--'=I ====="-,l the.__ ____________________ ___, and 
Here we find that the Director's decision was not in error for the reasons discussed below and will 
dismiss her appeal accordingly. 
2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "trnth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably trne." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
2 In addition to the grounds addressed below, we note that these motions failed to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(4) as they do not include the "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or 
is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding" required 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), (a)(4). 
2 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The Director dismissed the Petitioner's motion to reopen on the grounds that it was not accompanied 
by new evidence. As noted above, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by 
affidavits or other documentary evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director erred in his decision as she had provided the aforementioned certificates of 
participation as new evidence with her motion to reopen. However, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner previously submitted these documents as Exhibit 20 accompanying her response to the 
Director's June 2018 request for evidence (RFE). 3 Therefore, they cannot be considered documentary 
evidence of new facts, and providing them on appeal is not sufficient to overcome the Director's 
grounds for dismissing her motion to reopen. The Petitioner submits no other evidence demonstrating 
that the Director improperly denied this motion to reopen. We therefore find that the Director properly 
determined that the Petitioner had not complied with the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that a decision was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In dismissing the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, the 
Director noted that her motion did not "establish that the decision was incorrect based upon evidence 
of record at the time." 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that her motion "provided reasons for reconsideration and reopening 
supported by precedent decisions." She does not specify these reasons in her appellate brief: indicate 
which precedent decisions supported them, or identify errors of fact or law made by the Director in 
his decision. Upon review of the motion itself, we note that the Petitioner does not state the reasons 
why the Director should reconsider his decision in the brief accompanying it. Without this or other 
evidence demonstrating that the Director's decision was based upon an incorrect application of law or 
policy, the Petitioner has not established that her motion complied with the requirements for a motion 
to reconsider found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In the alternative, we review the record to determine whether the Director's decision was in error based 
upon the evidence in the record at the time. 4 On motion, the Petitioner asserted that the Director erred 
in determining that she had neither received a major internationally recognized award nor established 
her eligibility for the evidentiary criteria related to lesser national or internationally recognized awards, 
membership, published material, judging, original contributions, scholarly articles, leading or critical 
role, and salary found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 5 
3 In June 2018, the Director issued a request for additional evidence establishing that the Petitioner would continue to work 
in her area of expertise; that her entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States and; that she met the 
criteria related to awards, membership, judging, display, and leading or critical role pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i),(ii),(iv),(vii), and (viii). 
4 We note that the Petitioner did not address this ground on appeal, but rather "pray[ ed] for reconsideration and reevaluation 
of the previously submitted pieces of evidence." 
5 The Director also determined in his denial that the Petitioner had not met the criterion related to display found at 8 C.F .R. 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). On motion, the Petitioner does not contest this finding. We therefore deem it waived and will not address 
it in our analysis. 
3 
As it relates to receipt of a one-time major internationally recognized award, the Petitioner asserted on 
motion that she had received such an award as demonstrated by the certificates of excellence from 
,__ _____ __. D and I I she submitted with her response to the Director's RFE. She 
argued that these awards she received qualified as international as they were was issued by an 
international company and "on its face [it] appears to be a Top Achievement relating to the field." 
However, the regulation provides that a qualifying award must be a major, internationally recognized 
one, not that it should be issued by an international company. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The 
Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as media articles or other appropriate materials, showing 
that these awards were internationally recognized in her field. Without this evidence, she does not 
show the significance of these awards or how they rise to the level of a one-time major internationally 
recognized award. 
The Petitioner further claimed that these awards "appear[ed] to be a Top Achievement relating to the 
field." Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who 
have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a 
one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards 
qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically 
cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
Although the Petitioner asserted on motion there is "International [sic] media coverage regarding the 
winners," she did not provide materials demonstrating this coverage as it was "unavailable to [her] at 
the time of filing." She further claimed that these awards were posted in social media in a manner 
"similar as the announcement of Nobel Prize winners, Grammy, Golden Dove, Oscar etc." but did not 
provide evidence corroborating this assertion. The Petitioner did not submit other evidence 
demonstrating that these awards are global in scope and recognized internationally in the field as the 
top awards, or otherwise establishing that they are a major internationally recognized award. Without 
this evidence, she has not shown that she received such an award. Accordingly, we find the Director 
correctly determined that the Petitioner had not received a one-time major international award based 
upon the evidence in the record before him. 
As the Petitioner had not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserted that the Director was in error, and that she met at least three of these 
4 
criteria, an argument which she repeated on appeal. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate on appeal that the Director erred in dismissing her motion to reconsider. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As it relates to this criterion, the Petitioner provided a;:;:n:....:a::...;.w.:...:a=r-=d:....:c:....:e:.:..rt:c:i=fic.::.c=-at=-=e:....:f:.:..ro.::cm::.:;.:.J==-----------' I I a certificate of achievement from .__ __________ ____. a certificate of 
contribution from I I certificates of participation and recognition from I I I I and an achievement award from I I She also 
submitted a certificate statin that she was selected as a finalist for the People Manager of the Year by 
the '------------------------~ and the nomination form for this 
award. 
In his decision the Director acknowledged these certificates but concluded that she did not meet this 
criterion because thel I award was not granted in her field of endeavor. Rather, he determined, 
it was granted in the field of human resources, a field "not related to the area that the [Petitioner] is 
applying for as an administrative service manager." On motion, the Petitioner asserted that the 
Director erred in deciding this as "this award was intended not only for Human Resources but also for 
Administrative manager [sic]" and is to "recognize excellence in human resources, administrative and ~r." However, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner does not corroborate her assertion. The 
L___J award nomination form states that it "recognizes the HR practitioner who has imbibed and 
modelled the strategic role of human resources" and requires that "the awardee continues to make 
significant contribution to the development of the HR profession." The Petitioner does not provide 
evidence establishing that the field of human resources management is the same or allied with the field 
of administrative management such that she would meet this criterion. It is the petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Absent 
evidence demonstrating that this award is given in her field of endeavor, the Petitioner has not provided 
documentation sufficient to demonstrate that she has received a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field of administrative management. 
As it relates to the remainder of the awards, the Petitioner does not submit documentation sufficient 
to establish that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized in her field of endeavor, as 
required. The certificate from is presented to the Petitioner for "her 
involvement in th_,_ ___________ __.' but the Petitioner does not provide information 
about this network and the record lacks other evidence establishinJ that it is in her field of endeavor 
or an allied one. The certificate froml is for the Petitioner's work in 
"volunteering to be one of the facilitators in our team building program" while one of the I I I I certificates confirms that the Petitioner "successfully participated and passed 
our Sales and Collection Training Program." However, the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
demonstrating that facilitating a team building program or participating in sales and collection training 
are in the field as administrative management, and therefore that these awards are given for excellence 
in her field of endeavor. Further, while the second I I certificate and thel I I ) achievement award recognize the Petitioner's effort and achievement, they do not 
indicate for what or in which field this recognition is conferred. For example, the certificate from D merely states that the certificate is awarded "for [the Petitioner's] Outstanding Effort and 
5 
Achievement." The Petitioner does not provide additional materials clarifying why or for which field 
of endeavor she received these awards. As we noted above, the Petitioner bears the burden of 
establishing eligibility for the benefit sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Without additional 
information identifying the field of endeavor, she has not established that she received awards in this 
field. Accordingly, she has not met this burden. 
As an additional matter, the Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as news media articles or other 
relevant documentation, showing that any of the awards discussed above are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in her field. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner 
has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director noted in his decision that to demonstrate that she met this criterion, the Petitioner 
provided certificateg· bership inl I I I and i as well as a certificate establishing her completion of a two-day training 
program sponsored b . 6 
On motion, the Petitioner asserted that the Director erred in determining that there was no evidence in 
the record showing that she was a member of association! requirilg outstanding achievements of their 
members. She referenced her memb~rshi]is in both and D but focused on her ~ 
membership. The Petitioner asserted tha is "an association limited to individuals/persons of good 
moral standing in the community" and that the prerequisites for membership include "outstanding 
contributions and knowledge and highly skilled expertise in Management." While the aforementioned D certificate confirms that the Petitioner is a member oO the record lacks documentation, such 
as bylaws, membership requirements, or other appropriate evidence, corroborating her claim that the 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. Similarly, the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence demonstrating that I I requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by national or international experts in administrative management. It is the petitioner's burden 
to establish that she is ergible 1or the benefit sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Without evidence 
establishing thatc=]or requires outstanding achievements of its members, the Petitioner has 
not provided documentation sufficient to demonstrate that she met this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
6 We note that the Petitioner provided a certificate of membership in the organization~-------~ rather 
than one in.c=:::J as stated by the Director. However, evidence in the record is sufficient to establish that she is also a 
member ofL_J Specifically, thee=] nomination form states that eligibility for this award is predicated on being a 
member in good standing. 
6 
The Petitioner claimed that she met this criterion for the first time in her response to the Director's 
RFE and provided an article titled I I published in Working Mom magazine and a letter 
from the article's author confirming its publication with her response. The Director determined that 
this documentation was insufficient to establish that she met the requirements of this criterion. On 
motion, the Petitioner argued that the Director erred as he had overlooked the fact that this article 
included a title, date, and author, and was about her work both in the field of management and as a 
mom. 
As the Petitioner argues on motion, the article includes the title, date, and author, as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). However, this regulation also provides that the published 
material must be about the Petitioner relating to the work in the field in which classification is sought. 
Here the published material focuses on the Petitioner's experience as a working mother rather than her 
role as an administrative manager. While one paragraph contains glowing accolades from her 
colleagues about her ability to encourage employees to work together as a team, it concludes with "A 
great mom and awesome boss is what she is," and does not address her role as an administrative 
manager beyond this praise. 
Even were we to consider this article in the light most beneficial to the Petitioner, she does not provide 
evidence, such as on-line circulation statistics or other relevant data, to show that Working Mom's 
circulation is high relative to others, and thus is a major medium. 7 The record farther lacks information 
about the magazine showing that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium, 
as required. 8 Accordingly the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that she 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his denial, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of multiple certificates of 
participation and appreciation recognizing her work on speaking panels, as well as one confirming her 
participation on a judging panel for I I products. He noted that "[ t ]he phrase "a judge" implies 
a formal designation in a judging panel.. . rather than a presenter or contributing to marketing 
strategies" and concluded that this evidence did not meet this criterion. On motion, the Petitioner 
pointed to a letter of appreciation from I . !University for her work as a guest speaker and 
to a certificate of participation froml IBrojdcastinglfor serving on a panel of judges selecting 
the "best management and marketing strategies of products" as evidence that she met this 
criterion. She asserted that she was "one of three paid judges" on this I I panel and that this 
"judging is related to management." She asserts that, as management is an allied field of 
administrative management, this demonstrates that she had participated as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
8 Id., at 7. 
7 
With respect to the letter from I I University, this document thanks the Petitioner for her 
work as a guest speaker on a panel, while the certificate of appreciation from the same organization 
thanks the Petitioner "for giving an enlightening and insightful talk" in a seminar on entrepreneurship. 
The Petitioner does not provide evidence, such documentation of additional duties performed in this 
role or other relevant information, showing that being a guest speaker equates to participating as a 
judge of the work of others. Accordingly, the certificate and letter are not sufficient to establish that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Regarding her role as a paid judge for the I I panel, the Petitioner provides only the 
aforementioned certificate acknowledging her participation as a judge selecting the best 
"'Management and Marketing Strategies' in making advertisement for I I 
.__ ___ ..... ~-" She does not submit additional information about the event or the duties she performed 
in this role, a description of the marketing and management strategies she judged, or other relevant 
information necessary to determine whether this activity qualifies under this criterion. Further, while 
she asserts that this judging was related to managing and thus is in the same or an allied field of 
administrative management, she does not provide evidence establishing this. It is the burden of the 
petitioner to establish her eligibility for the benefit sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Here the 
Petitioner has not done so as the submitted evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that she has 
participated as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization to 
administrative management. Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner asserted that she met this criterion as shown by certificates of appreciation and reference 
letters from former employees in support of this assertion. The record reflects that she provided a 
Certificate of Recognition from thel • • I Bureau of Internal Revenue for her 
work in "surpassing her Collection Goal," and a certificate of excellence from.__ _______ ~ 
.__ ______________ __. recognizing her "outstanding performance throughout the 
year." While these awards are indicative of the quality of her work, they do not identify how the 
Petitioner's contributions to these entities are original in nature. Without this information, we cannot 
determine if these awards sufficiently establish that she has made original contributions in her field. 
Further, the Petitioner does not provide evidence of or discuss how these contributions have been 
widely implemented or impacted the field in a manner reflective of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the letters of recommendation in the record, while they identify the Petitioner's 
contributions, generally they do not provide specific examples demonstrating the impact of these 
contributions on the field as a whole. For example, the letters of certification and of recommendation 
froml I head of finance at I I praise the Petitioner for 
"developing many sales plan [sic] leading to an increase in our sales revenue" and for how her 
8 
"excellent leadership and management dedication have helP.ed this com an meet its sales targets for 
an entire year within three months." In her correspondence Phili ine School of 
BJJsiness Management, discusses a manuscript titl~d I = ~ : j an~d-s-ta-t-es-th_a_t_t_h-is_r_e_s-ea_r_c_h_i_s_'_'o_n __ g-in-al_a_n_d_h_a~s 
not been published elsewhere at this time." However, she does not provide examples of how this 
original research has significantly impacted the field. 
I I I University, notes that the Petitioner's presentation on the subject of 
~-------------------~twas "highly appreciated," and praises her for 
her "views on developing an efficient marketing strategy." I I continues, "[ w ]e will 
definitely take your words into practice," but does not offer specific examples of how these views have 
already impacted or been widely implemented in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how the 
alien's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 9 Without the 
inclusion of specific examples of how the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field of 
administrative management, this correspondence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner met this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
On motion, the Petitioner argued that the Director should consider materials that "research ... 
conducted for proprietary purposes such as industrial research and product development pose special 
issues" as comparable evidence of the authorship of scholarly articles in her field, as petitioners who 
might publish their findings in these areas cannot publish in the public domain. She referenced a 
"Letter of Employee Commendation' from a previous employer as comparable evidence of her 
publication of scholarly articles. Upon review of this letter, we note that it does not discuss the 
Petitioner's publication of any materials, instead commending her for excellent work in management 
support, rather than research conducted for proprietary purposes. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to her occupation. A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted evidence that 
would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence 
she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown why she cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. General assertions 
that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and should 
be discounted. The fact that the Petitioner did not submit documentation that fulfills at least three is 
not evidence that an administrative manager could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
show that she fulfills this criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. 
As noted above, the record also contains correspondence from I I discussing the possible 
publication of the Petitioner's original work in the Journal of Innovative Business Studies. However, 
the Petitioner does not provide evidence that this work was published, as required at 8 C.F.R. § 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). See also 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(l) (requiring a petitioner to establish eligibility at the 
time of filing.) 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to establish that she met this criterion the Petitioner rovided certificate.,_s ..,.o.,__f_..a=--=>==......., 
and 
well as letters of recommendation from mana er at 
from.__ _____ ~ payroll officer at.__ _____ ~-------' The Director acknowledged 
these certificates and letters in his dismissal but stated that they were insufficient to demonstrate that 
she had served in a leading role for establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On motion, 
the Petitioner argued that the Director's decision was in error as the letters contained "detailed facts 
about petitioner's leading and significant role in every organization she has worked with." As we 
discuss below, we agree that the letters contain facts regarding the role that the Petitioner performed 
at these establishments. 10 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 11 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical.12 In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence.13 
Regarding a leading role, neither the certificates nor correspondence provide a title and matchin 
duties, or other details that might help to establish that the Petitioner's role a ......... ------~ ~ LI Jandl I L=1orl I was a leading one. The Petitioner does not prov1 e ot er 
materials, such as organizational charts or other appropriate evidence, showing that she served in a 
leading role for these institutions. Without this evidence, the Petitioner has not sufficiently 
demonstrated that she has performed in a leading role for these entities. 
As it relates to performing in a critical role for these companies, the certificates discussed above lack 
descriptions of the Petitioner's contributions tol ID I I and I I They farther lack, and the Petitioner does not provide, 
information on how the Petitioner's contributions were of significant importance to the outcome of 
the respective establishments' activities. 
10 The Petitioner does not explicitly state whether she submits evidence intended to demonstrate that she served in a leading 
role or in a critical role for these organizations, so we review the evidence as it relates to both. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id., at 10. 
13 Id., at 10-11. 
10 
Regarding the correspondence froml I and I I we note that this contains 
statements describing the Petitioner's cont;ihutions to thej; resn:ctive companies. I I notes 
"[the Petitioner] brought great value tol ~ ~ Jby consistently exceeding quotas and 
selling in the top 15%" of her peers." .__ ____ ___. writes that the Petitioner has "embraced 
leadership opportunities" and that "when a project came up from a particularly difficult client the 
Petitioner] was there to step forward and lead the team and to coordinate the pro;:.,pi:...o::..:s:..:a:;:.l.:...."--'=====r-,----,, 
states that the "proposal was accepted on the first try." However, neither I I nor I ]provide detailed examples of how the Petitioner's actions were of critical importance to the 
outcomes of their respective companies. Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the petitioner's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. 14 As the correspondence provided by the 
Petitioner does not contain this detailed information, these materials are not sufficient to establish that 
she has served in a critical role for these companies. 
Moreover, even had the Petitioner demonstrated that she performed in a leading or a critical role for 
the establishments discussed above, she does not provide evidence demonstrating that they enjoy a 
distinguished reputation. She therefore did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In her response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner new 1: claimed to meet this criterion and submitted 
a salary certificate froml I and a printout from payscale.com titled 
"Average Administrative Services Manager Salary" providing salaries for administrative services 
managers in the United States. The Director did not address this criterion in his decision. The 
Petitioner notes the Director's lack of analysis on motion, and points to evidence from glassdoor.com 
and from salary.com showing comparative salaries for administrative services managers in the 
Philippines that she asserts was provided with her RFE response. 15 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that she meets this criterion based upon the evidence in the 
record. The burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence, including, but not limited to, 
geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay 
above the compensation data, demonstrating that she meets this criterion.16 Further, a petitioner 
working in a different country must be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence 
in that country.17 Here the salary certificate in the record reflects that from March 2004 through June 
2006J lpaid the Petitioner a gross salary of 35,000 while she was working 
in the Philippines.18 Therefore, appropriate evidence may be compensation surveys reflecting the 
wages for administrative service managers in the Philippines, or other appropriate materials. 
However, the printout from payscale.com provides the average administrative services manager salary 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 10. 
15 We note that the record does not contain the documentation from glassdoor.com and salary.com regarding salaries in 
the Philippines as asserted. 
16 Id., at 11. 
17 Id., at 11. 
18 We note that this document did not indicate the currency in which the Petitioner was paid. 
11 
for those working in the United States rather than the Philippines. A petitioner must establish that 
she is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Without 
appropriate evidence of the average salary earned by administrative service managers in the 
Philippines, the Petitioner has not provided documentation sufficient to establish whether she has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in her field. Accordingly, she has not demonstrated that 
she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Director erred in dismissing her motions to reopen and 
reconsider, nor does the record establish her eligibility for the benefit sought. We will therefore 
dismiss the appeal for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate 
basis for the decision 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-A-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner , a mathematician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she only met two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of M-A-M-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mathematician at.__ _______ __, College. As she has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the 
Petitioner had met the criteria for judging and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), respectively, but not for awards, membership, original contributions of major significance, and 
leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets these criteria. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director noted that the Petitioner submitted evidence of being awarded fellowships to study and 
research grants, concluding that, without additional corroborating evidence, these do not qualify as 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The Director noted that fellowships are not nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field because only students, and not experts in the field, compete for 
them. He indicated that the Petitioner had not established that research grants are given for excellence 
in the field. 
On apral, Te Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion on account of her research grant awards 
at the University of,__ ______ ____, and at the I I University of Science and 
1 We note that the Petitioner received the 2018 research award atc=J after the date the petition was filed and thus 
cannot be used to establish eligibility. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the illlllligration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
2 
Matter of M-A-M-
[ her recognition awards froJ I College and the Missouri J,__ __ __. 
--------,.-------___.l and an outstanding professor award from the Chi Omega sorority at the 
,__ __ ~!University of Science and Technology. Although the Petitioner contends these awards are 
well-known in the field, she has not submitted evidence to support that assertion or demonstrate that 
these awards are nationally or internationally recognized to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
We also note that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of the criteria upon which these awards 
are based; thus, it is unclear whether they are given for excellence in the field. Documentation in the 
record indicates that thel lgrant program was established to encourage and support research and 
leverage external fonding, and that it seeks to enhance the university's role as a research institution, 
farther professional growth and development, and provide support for scholars. It also indicates that 
preference is given to junior faculty in the allocation of fonds. Furthermore, the criteria for evaluation 
for the award identifies factors such as scholarly or creative merit, likelihood of the proposed project 
resulting in an original contribution to the field, and potential to receive fonding from external sources; 
however, it does not indicate that applicants are evaluated on their demonstrated excellence in their 
fields. Additionally, the record lacks documentation regarding the research grant from the I I 
University of Science and Technology to determine ifit was awarded for excellence in the field. 
Similarly, the certificates and letters of appreciation that the Petitioner has submitted the award from I _ I College indicates it was given for public presentation of intellectual and 
creative scholarship. The certificate from the Chi Omega sorority notes that it was given in gratitude 
for her work preparing students for future careers. Likewise, the letters of appreciation relate to her 
work and participation in mentoring and study sessions. These awards appear to relate to her 
pedagogical work as a professor, rather than excellence in the field of mathematics, as required by the 
regulation. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in thefieldfor which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her membership in the American Mathematical Society (AMS), 
the Mathematical Association of America (MAA), as well as for her position on the Math Alliance 
Executive Board and for being a ~----------~Fellow in 2009. 
In his decision, the Director reviewed the membership requirements for both the AMS and the MAA 
and found that neither organization required outstanding achievements for membership, as required 
by the regulatory criterion. He noted that AMS membership is open to anyone who supports the 
mission of the society, while the MAA had no membership requirements beyond the payment of dues. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director. Although the Petitioner submitted 
documentation about both organizations with the appeal, it does not overcome the Director's concerns 
or establish eligibility. For example, the section on AMS membership in the organization's annual 
report for 2016 welcomes new members, but provides no information about membership requirements. 
Similarly, the by-laws for the MAA identify three categories of membership in Article 2, but do not 
set forth the qualifications for any of them. As such, the record does not establish that either the AMS 
or the MAA require outstanding achievements 
3 
Matter of M-A-M-
The Director also noted that the record lacked information about the membership requirements for the 
Math Alliance or its executive board, another organization the Petitioner claims establishes her 
eligibility. On appeal, she has submitted screenshots identifying her as one of the executive board 
members for the I I chapter of the organization and discussing the history of the 
organization, but provides no evidence showing that the position requires outstanding achievements, 
as required by the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims for the first time that herl !Fellowship in 2009 satisfies 
this criterion. While the record contains screenshots on how to apply for al I Fellowship 
wit~ I University, the material provided does not describe the eligibility criteria 
for the position. As such, the record does not establish that it requires outstanding achievements as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has 
conducted reviews for the Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, the Journal of Inequalities and 
Applications, and the Malaysian Journal of Mathematical Sciences, among other work as a judge of the 
work of others. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. She 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. She must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Director cited letters in the record froml 11 I andl I, noting that they 
did not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's contributions are consistent with major 
significance. On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional letters attesting to the extent of her 
contributions. However, most of these letters discuss her work in mentoring other students, her 
innovative presentations, and the research grants she has received, but these details do not demonstrate 
how her work has been implemented in the field. For example, I L a professor of 
mathematics at I I College states that "[ the Petitioner] has been a driving force 
4 
Matter of M-A-M-
for the mathematics community at the college, the university and on the national level," highlighting 
her work as a "reviewer for the largest mathematical databases in the world" and as a mentor and 
organizer of research activities. I I indicates that she "has a spectacular talent for motivating 
and engaging students to present their results." She concludes that "[the Petitioner] is an outstanding, 
internationally recognized mathematician that has made significant contributions to her area of 
research." Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's 
burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afI' d, 905 
F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 Civ. 10729 1997 WL 188942 *5 
(S.D.N.Y. 1997). Furthermore, letters from colleagues that do not specifically identify contributions 
or detail how those contributions have influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d at 1036: aff'd in part 596 F.3d 1115. 
We note that two letters discuss the Petitioner's proposals to the '.__ __________ __, 
Research Initiative," indicating that these were published in the Proceedings of SPIE journal. 
However, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that this work has had a significant 
impact on the field. 
The Petitioner also addresses her scholarly articles and the rate in which they have been cited by other 
scholars and experts in the field. We note that the record contains a Google Scholar report indicating 
that the Petitioner has published five scholarly works that have cumulatively been cited 15 times. 
While the record contains other documentation indicating she had published other scholarly articles, 
much of this documentation has not been translated into English with an accompanying certified 
translation under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Thus, the Petitioner has not explained how her publication 
and citation history demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
In addition, the fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is 
not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient to 
establish eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Furthermore, contributions of major significance connotes that the petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. While the Petitioner submits a 
scholar! article she co-authored with two of her coll ea ues at College entitled, 
she has not '---------------------------------~ submitted supporting documentation that establishes how this has impacted the field. For these 
reasons, and those discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion an account of his articles published in the 
Journal of Logic Analysis, the Journal of Geometric Analysis, and Topology Proceedings, among 
others. Thus, the Petitioner has established that she meets this criterion. 
5 
Matter of M-A-M-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 2 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather her performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 3 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that her position as a professor at I l the 
University of I State University, I I University of Science and 
Technology, the School of Information Technology, thel I University of Technology, 
and the University of.__ __ _. amounted to leading or critical roles. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner was a professor at these institutions, but she has not submitted any evidence indicating that 
she was in a leadership position to constitute a leading role. 
The Petitioner cites letters from former colleagues at the University ofl I and~I _____ _. 
Universitx, but these do not establish that she performed a critical role at these universities. For 
example,L I associate professor at the University ofl J states that he was 
impressed with the Petitioner's teaching, noting her innovative methods such as encouraging students 
to create three-dimensional models in multi-variable calculus. The letters from other professors 
similarly attest to the Petitioner's engaging manner of teaching students, but the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating how the Petitioner's role as a professor at these institutions was of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities to constitute a critical role. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 IO (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 
Matter of M-A-M-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-A-M-, ID# 3349591 (AAO July 23, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-P-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research associate in therapeutic ultrasound, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief: arguing that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-P-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral research associate at the University of ~------------
1 I Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of two manuscripts 
for a journal. In addition, she authored eight scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles 
criteria. Further, we find that the Petitioner contributed in developing a real-time imaging system for 
an ultrasound therapy for aesthetic improvement I I resulting in a contribution of major 
significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that 
she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
Matter of C-P-K-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to her curriculum vitae, the Petitioner received her bachelor of technology in 
instrumentation engineering at the I I Institute of Technology (India) in 2005, doctor of 
philosophy in biomedical engineering at the University ot1 lin 2012, and master of business 
administration at I I in 2015. Moreover, the Petitioner indicated that 
she held several postdoctoral research associate, research assistant, and internship positions since 
2005, including her most recent appointments as a postdoctoral research associate at the State 
University ofl ~ and D. As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within 
her field, authored scholarly articles, and made a contribution through her research. The record, 
however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner reviewed two papers for Physics in Medicine and Biology in 2013 and 2015. Moreover, the 
Petitioner submitted a letter froml l I I for Ultrasound in Medicine 
and Biology, who indicated that the Petitioner served in the editorial assistantship position where 
"[ s ]he screened manuscripts submitted for publication and checked the format and content to make 
sure each paper could be adequately reviewed." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she 
actually served as a judge reviewing papers in determining their suitability or acceptability for 
publication. Furthermore, the Petitioner offered a letter froml l D.esearch Park, 
who stated that the Petitioner participated on c::J Patent Review Board where she "made 
recommendations to reject a patent application, to request more information from the inventor, to keep 
the invention as a trade secret, or to publish the invention."2 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that her two manuscript reviews, as well 
as her membership on the Patent Review Board, places her among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how the number ofreviews 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
2 I I did not elaborate on the extent of her membership with the Patent Review Board, such as her length of service 
or the number of reviews she conducted. 
3 
Matter of C-P-K-
she conducted or the number of journals she served compares to others at the top of the field. 
Furthermore, the record reflects that her paper reviews occurred in 2013 and 2015. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish that these two instances contribute to a finding that she has a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Participation in the 
peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in 
her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of 
review requests relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or 
publications, or chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not 
established that her peer review experience places here among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored eight articles in professional 
journals and seven presentation papers at the time she filed her petition. However, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991 ). She has not shown that her authorship of eight published articles and seven presentation 
papers is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by her 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner initially provided evidence reflecting 
that her eight published articles garnered 85 citations and her seven paper presentations received 20. 
While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that field has noticed her 
work, she has not established that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
in her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to her research represent attention 
at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has submitted ublished material as evidence of her acclaim. The record contains 
screenshots reporting on as well as the creation of the medical company,! I and its 
subsequent purchase b..__ _ __. However, the screenshots do not demonstrate that the Petitioner herself 
has garnered acclaim from this ultrasound therapy. Rather, the screenshots specifically reference 
another individualj l as the principal investigator and quote him. The press coverage 
of I , 0 I does not mention the Petitioner. Although she contributed to the research and 
4 
Matter of C-P-K-
development ofl I the media reports do not single her out or acknowledge her for her findings. 
Here, the Petitioner does not establish that this media coverage is reflective of her status as an 
individual who has garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. 
Moreover, although she claims to have made additional contributions of major significance, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate they have had remarkable influence in the overall field. Rather, she 
provided documentary evidence discussing their potential impact on the field. For instance, the 
Petitioner offered evidence showing that she contributed to the development of I I an 
ultrasound device for treating musculoskeletal injuries. However, the media coverage reflects the 
possible application without demonstrating that the field already recognizes it as a contribution of 
major significance. Similarly, the Petitioner submitted screenshots announcing the launch of the 
device which indicate that it "is intended to revolutionize the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries for 
people with chronic pain," "will revolutionize the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries, especially for 
people with chronic pain," and "it represents the best possibility of treatment." Here, the evidence 
speculates on the prospect of being majorly significant. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to establish that she received any sustained national or international acclaim and has been 
recognized in the field as being among the small percentage at the very top of the field from her work 
witH I See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record also contains recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's research and original 
contributions but do not demonstrate that she is among that small percentage at the very top of her 
field of endeavor or that she has sustained national or international acclaim. Instead, the authors make 
general assertions repeating the statute and regulations. For instance.I I director of 
cardiology segment atl I, opined that he "would characterize [the 
Petitioner] as one among that small percentage of researchers at the very top of the field of improving 
therapeutic ultrasound.".__ ____ _., professor at I !Institute of Technology, claimed 
that the Petitioner's "contributions to the field have had an unparalleled impact on the advancement 
of therapeutic ultrasound and its usage in clinical settings, demonstrating her extraordinary ability in 
the field and her place among that small percentage of researchers at the very top of the field." In 
additio11 ,I [ associate professor at the University ofl !indicated that "[t]he 
direct applicability of [ the Petitioner's] findings to clinical care places her among that small percentage 
of researchers at the very top of the filed worldwide." Although the letters recount the Petitioner's 
research and highlight her findings, they do not explain or justify their assertions. Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not provide 
sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, 
to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
5 
Matter of C-P-K-
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-P-K-, ID# 3521169 (AAO July 23, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6943427 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entertainment and production company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a conga 
player, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently manages the Beneficiary, a conga player and percussionist for the band 
I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Petitioner must establish that he satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary 
met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging the work of 
others. 1 The record reflects that the Beneficiary served as on a jury panel for qualifiers for the 2015 
and 20161 !Awards. We therefore agree with the Director that the Beneficiary meets the 
criterion for judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
published material, membership, and leading or critical roles. 2 It farther notes that the Director "did 
not discuss that the beneficiary presented evidence that he has performed in a leading role for 
establishments that has a distinguished reputation and satisfies 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(vii) [sic]." 
1 The Director also found that the Beneficiary did not meet the criterion for original contribution at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). We note that the Petitioner did not claim the Beneficiary met this criterion. Regardless, as the Petitioner 
did not contest the Director's finding on appeal, we consider this matter waived and will not address it in our analysis. 
2 It first argues that "[t]he denial alleged that the Petitioner did not identify which of the regulatory criteria he was 
attempting to meet and that for this reason the Service could not assess the evidence as meeting any of the criteria." It 
points to letters accompanying the initial filing and its RFE clearly identifying the criteria it claimed on the Beneficiary's 
behalf. While the Director incorrectly stated that the record does not identify the claimed criteria, with the exception of 
the leading or critical criterion, the record reflects that the Director assessed the majority of evidence submitted by the 
Petitioner. 
2 
For the following reasons we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established the 
Beneficiary's eligibility for the published material and membership criteria. However, we also find 
that the Director did not address all of the evidence in the record with respect to the lesser awards 
criterion and did not address the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary meets the leading or critical 
role criterion. We will withdraw the Director's decision for the latter reasons and remand it to him for 
a new decision consistent with our analysis of those matters. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion through his membership in the 
Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS), and the Society of Authors and Composers 
of Venezuela (SACVEN). It provides an e-mail confirmation of the Beneficiary's voting membership 
in LARAS, a document titled "About LARAS," and a document titled "The Latin Recording Academy 
Membership Registration." The Petitioner also submits a certificate of registration confirming his 
membership in SACVEN, a printout from the SACVEN website about its history, the SACVEN 
membership requirements, and a document titled "About Us" from the SACVEN website, and a notice 
from SACVEN's Instagram page advising members that it would not hold its "Assembly Ordinary of 
Partners" scheduled for March. 
The e-mail and certificate of registration are sufficient to establish that the Beneficiary is a member of 
LARAS and of SACVEN, respectively. However, the remainder of the documentation submitted by 
the Petitioner does not establish that these associations require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by internationally or nationally recognized experts in the field of music. 
As it relates to LARAS, the "About LARAS" document provides that the organization "requires 
outstanding achievements as condition for membership." However, the Petitioner does not provide 
corroborating evidence, such as the by-laws, membership selection process, or other relevant 
materials, to support this assertion. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). 
In addition, the membership registration document provides that "[t]o qualify for Voting Membership 
you must have at least 12 commercially released recordings in Spanish or Portugese [sic] as an artist" 
and that "album credits require that 51 % of the album is in Spanish or Portugese [sic]." The Petitioner 
does not provide, nor does the record contain, additional documentation demonstrating that releasing 
12 commercial recordings equates to an outstanding achievement in the field of music. 
Additionally, the membership registration states that "all application [sic] will be evaluated by a panel 
of experts who will judge the artistic, technical and professional quality of each entry." However, the 
Petitioner does not submit materials about this panel which might establish that it is comprised of 
persons who are nationally or internationally recognized in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. For 
3 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's LARAS membership meets 
this criterion. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's SACVEN membership, the membership requirements in the record state 
that the applicant must provide, among other items, a nomination letter written by two SACVEN 
members and at least one piece of "work of his/her own creation pursuant to chapter 3, Article 7 of 
the Company's bylaws."3 The "About Us" overview provides in addition, that in order to be accepted 
as an affiliate, the candidate must "have no less than 20 works ( compositions, or songs) in public 
execution in the domestic or international market (edited, published, recorded, etc.)." The document 
asserts that 20 is "a number considered a significant achievement in the world of music in Venezuela." 
The Petitioner does not provide documentation showing that either the nomination letter or the 
Beneficiary's work are the equivalent of outstanding achievements in the field of music. Further, it 
does not submit evidence establishing that having at least 20 pieces of work in the public domain is 
considered to be a significant achievement as judged by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. 
The "About Us" overview document for SACVEN further notes that approval of applicants for 
membership is made by a review committee made up of association members who "belong to the 
exclusive group of personages who have reached the pinnacle of their career, as evidenced by the fact 
of having been recognized with major national and international awards in the industry of music." 
However, the Petitioner does not provide additional information describing the panel's selection 
process, or other evidence establishing that membership approval is based upon outstanding 
achievements. Further, the Petitioner does not submit documentation about this review committee to 
corroborate SACVEN' s assertion that it is composed of internationally or nationally recognized 
experts. Without additional documentation showing that LARAS or SACVEN require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by internationally or nationally recognized experts, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits published material about the Beneficiary related to his work as a musician 
appearing online at panorama.com.ve, laverdad.com, sunot1c1eno.com, enpauta.com.ve, 
enmaracaibo.com, arepafrita.com, noticiaaldia.com, biendateao.com, Noticias Digital 58, and in the 
newspaper Version Final. We note that the articles appearing at laverdad.com, enmaracaibo.com, 
enpauta.com.ve, noticiaaldia.com, and biendateao.com do not include the author of the material, as 
required per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and cannot establish eligibility under this criterion. 
3 The document states that candidates should also submit a recent photo, copy of identify card, copy of the Tax Registration 
Number, and a sworn bank statement with the application. It also includes a provision explaining how underage authors 
can obtain membership. 
4 
With regard to the articles appearing at panorama.com.ve, 4 sunoticierio.com, arepafrita.com, Noticias 
Digital 58, the Petitioner does not submit evidence, such as the circulation statistics ( either on-line or 
in print), for these publications and their intended audience, that might establish that these websites 
are major media or professional or major trade publications. 5 Similarly, while the Petitioner provides 
circulation statistics Version Final and information about the newspaper's audience, it does not 
provide comparative circulation statistics for other newspapers or media to demonstrate that Version 
Final's circulation statistics are high relative others such that it rises to the level of major media. For 
these reasons the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the 
membership and published material criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). However, 
upon review we also find reason to remand the decision in its entirety to the Director for a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
First, we find that the Director did not address its claim that the Beneficiary met the criterion for 
leading or critical role found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), as noted by the Petitioner on appeal. In 
the brief accompanying its initial filing, the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary met the criterion for 
leading or critical role found at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(viii) because he was an original member and 
lead ercussionist of the band a music professor participating in a master class of the 
.__----------------...----~~f_V~e=n=..ezuela , and a percussionist for the musical 
celebration of the newspaper Panorama's ~-----~anniversary inc=J As the Director did 
not address this in his decision, we will remand the matter for him to analyze the evidence submitted 
under this criterion. 
In addition, the Director concluded that the Beneficiary had not met the lesser awards criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). He found that, while the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary received 
the 2014 I I Venezuela award forl [ 6 it "failed to submit national or 
international media coverage showing that [the Beneficiary's] award is nationally or internationally 
recognized ... in the field of endeavor." The Director farther determined that the Petitioner had not 
provided documentation o±: among other things, "criteria used to give the prizes or awards" and the 
"reputation of the organization granting the prizes or awards." 
Upon de nova review, we find that the record contains media articles about the ~I -----~ 
Venezuela awards and the ceremony during which they are granted, some of which were 
4 The Petitioner asserts on appeal that it also submitted a media kit for Panorama, but the record does not support this 
claim. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the 
circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the 
publication is.) 
6 Documentation in the record also refers to this award as the I I thel I and the I I of 
Venezuela. 
5 
acknowledged by the Director in his decision. 7 The record also contains additional articles and 
documentation related to the award and the award's sponsoring organization not referenced in the 
Director's decision. Therefore, we also remand this decision for the Director to determine whether 
this documentation in the record is sufficient to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for the lesser 
awards criterion. 
If the Director determines that the Beneficiary satisfies at least two additional criteria beyond the one 
already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether 
the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be remanded to the Director for further action in accordance with this decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
7The Director listed a series of foreign language media articles about the award published online at zulia.com. 
sunoticierio.com, and versionfinal.com in his decision. He also indicated that the record contained the referenced letter 
froml I president ofl lofVenezuela, a screenshot from I ~enezuela.com, a screenshot 
from bing.com, and a photo of the Beneficiary holding the award. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8523716 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research associate, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a postdoctoral research associate in the department of civil 
and environmental engineering at the University ofl I Because the 
Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiaiy criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly aiiicles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, she 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on her journal reviews, publications in top 
journals, paper presentations at conferences, citations of her work by others, and recommendation 
letters. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
As previously discussed, we have already considered the Petitioner's manuscript reviews under the 
judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Moreover, although the Petitioner initially provided 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation o{Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update AD/l-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
emails requesting her to review papers for journals, she demonstrated that she conducted only two of 
the reviews prior to the filing of her petition. 2 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish how 
performing two manuscript reviews for journals constitutes an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show, for example, how she impacted or 
influenced the field through her paper reviews beyond the individual journals. 3 
Further, the Petitioner argues that she has published in top journals and has presented at conferences. 
Again, we considered the Petitioner's publication history under the scholarly articles criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that publication of articles in 
highly ranked journals or presentation of work at distinguished conferences automatically establishes 
original contributions of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research in the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal or presentation at a 
distinguished conference alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Moreover, as it relates to the citation of her work, the Petitioner initially submitted evidence from 
Google Scholar showing that six of her articles or conference papers received 45, 27, 10, 5, 4, and 1 
citation(s), respectively. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided updated figures 
from Google Scholar reflecting that seven of her articles or conference papers received 52, 34, 10, 7, 
5, 4, and 2 citations, respectively. The Petitioner did not show whether the increased citations occurred 
in papers published after the filing of her petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, this 
criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify her original 
contributions but to also explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that her citations to her work are commensurate 
with contributions of major significance. 4 Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or 
relevance of the citations to her articles or conference papers. For example, she did not demonstrate 
that these citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles that the field 
views as having been majorly significant. Although her citations indicate the some in the field have 
referenced her work, the Petitioner did not establish that her citation numbers to her work rise to the 
level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 5 
2 In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided four emails requesting her to perform 
manusc1ipt reviews afier the filing of her petition. The Petitioner must establish that eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she actually conducted those reviews. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
4 The Petitioner also did not demonstrate that any of her other articles or conference papers resulted in original contiibutions 
of major significance in the field. 
5 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
3 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner provided data from Clarivate Analytics comparing 
her citations per paper per year to the average of citations per paper per year. Comparing average 
citations to the Petitioner's citations, however, does not automatically establish majorly significant 
contributions in her field, nor did she show that all papers garnering citations above the average for 
the year qualify as majorly significant. Once again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than where her citations fall 
among the averages of others in her field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be 
to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited articles, as well as factoring in 
other corroborating evidence, in order to gauge the field's view of a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that her written work, using Clarivate Analytics methodology 
through average citation numbers, resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner initially offered samples of the first page of articles claiming that they cited 
to her work, but none of the pages reflected the citation or reference to any of her work. In response 
to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided portions of articles that cited to her work. A review of 
those excerpts, though, do not show the significance of the Petitioner's research in the overall field 
beyond the authors who cited to her work in those portions. In addition, the partial articles do not 
distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's work from the other cited papers. Moreover, the limited papers 
do not indicate that the Petitioner's work is authoritative or othe1wise viewed as being majorly 
significant in the field. In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through 
citations rise to a level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the Petitioner resented screenshots from cee.illinois.edu and a press release from 
.__ ___ --r-----,-....--s===d.i....::C::..:enter for Water Research identically announcing that I I the 
Universi an National Laborato "recentl received a rant to initiate their 
project,.__ ______________________________ ... which aims 
to more accurately predict extreme weather events and reduce impacts at the neighborhood level." 
However, the Petitioner did not establish that such minimal reporting or coverage indicates an original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Further, the evidence speculates on the possibility of 
having an impact at some point in the future, such as 1 lwill combine natural science, social 
science, data science and engineering to not only more accurately predict weather events ... , but also 
assess vulnerabilities within neighborhoods," "researchers also hope to facilitate public discussion and 
better prepare community members for extreme weather events," "[t]he project will provide improved 
assessments of the likelihood of extreme weather impacts in neighborhoods across the city, which can 
be used to direct resources to help those most at risk," '"the project will identify howl I 
infrastructure ... can be used by local communities to reduce their vulnerahilitv to extreme weather," 
'l I project team will use this infmmation in con·unction withl !records to 
learn how different levels o interact with existin infrastructure," "[a]ssessments 
oflinks between.__ __________________ ~ will help to reduce health impacts 
of heat waves, and these new results will support ........ _ _.infrastructure recommendations to reduce 
extreme weather vulnerability inl !communities," and "[ w ]hile the current project focuses on 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as auth01itative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
thel I area, it has the potential to expand to cities across the globe." ( emphasis added). While 
the Petitioner's work on the project may show promise, she did not demonstrate how her work already 
qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
Here, the significant nature of th~ !project has yet to be determined. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted about a half dozen recommendation letters that generally recount her 
research and findings and indicate their publications in journals or presentation at conferences. 
Although they reflect the novelty of her work, they do not sufficiently articulate how her research and 
findings have been considered of such importance and how their im act on the field rises to the level 
of major significance required by this criterion. For instance · · · the 
Petitioner's "breakthrough research on the application o-t===l theory to.__ ______ _. and I I forecasting has resulted in three journal arti~Te"s7~-imh "[t]his cutting-edge research has 
important technological implications in developing real-timec=] measurements and reliablec=] 
forecasting under extreme I I events. "6 Although r==:::==] pointed out that her work 
resulted in a journal publication and opined about important technological implications, he did not 
further elaborate and explain the implications and how the field views them as important. Again, 
publication or presentation alone is not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. 
USCIS. 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided a letter from I O I who highlighted the Petitioner's 
publications and presentations. For example,! I stated the Petitioner's "articles have been 
published in international peer-reviewed journals including: Advances in Water Resources, Journal 
of [H]ydrology, and Journal of [H]ydrolo ical E n ineering which are high demanding journals in 
the field of hydrological sciences and ' and she "also received the reat honor, in 
addition to other invitations to give talks to the .__ ____ .....,-----..... _______ ..... Congress 
American Geophysical Union meeting , International Symposium on 
..==========------........!..........:::...._" Here, I I did not explain how the articles or 
presentati_ons have somehow impacted or affected the field in a significant manner. Moreover, while I !claimed that "the method and theory she developed has wide applications inl I I I as well.__ _______ __,engineering," he did not elaborate, identify the "wide" 
applications, and describe the impacts of her method and theory in the field. 
In addition, similar to the I I media reports discussed above, the l~eculate on the 
potential of her work, such as: the Petitioner's "research will clearly benefitL___Jand the United 
States as a whole" I p, and "[t]he identified relationship rn further be used to 
predict the complete profile of I I at a monitored site with limited samplings" and "this 
type of comparative study where feasibilities of multiple approaches that were well established to 
solve an important problem were analyzed and discussed in depth will likely get excellent citations in 
the years to come due to its value in the field" I I ( emphasis added). Although 
the letters opine on the possibility of the influence of the Petitioner's research and work at some time 
in the future, they do not demonstrate how her work has already impacted, influenced, or affected the 
overall field in a significant nature. 
6 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. 7 Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 Although we discussed a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8656970 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a contracted photographer withDPhotography Channel 
Network since 2012. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not show that she garnered sustained national or international acclaim 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that she is one 
of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she satisfies an additional criterion relating to leading or critical 
role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and her evidence in the aggregate establishes her eligibility as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already shown that she satisfies the minimum 
requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below.1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to her resume, the Petitioner "has been a professional photographer since 2003" and a 
member of various photography associations, such as the Entrepreneur Photography Association I I, the I IY outh Photographers Association, the I lw omen Photographers 
Association, the China Photographers Association, the Chinese Women Photographers Association, 
the China Photographic Copyright Association, and the Photographic Society of America. Further, 
she claimed that she "took summer art programs at I I's [I]nstitute of Art I I and art 
programs at [the University I ~ [in] recent years." Moreover, as mentioned 
above, the Petitioner has been employed as a contracted photographer withc=]Photography Channel 
Network since 2012. As indicated above, the Petitioner garnered awards, received press coverage, 
judged others, and displayed her work. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her personal 
and professional achievements rise to a level of "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner garnered the "Excellent Photographer Award" at theOChina I I International Photography Festival. In addition, the Petitioner presented evi n h in 
that she received lesser known prizes or awards, such as two "Silver Awards" at the.__ ___ ---.====1 
Ph t h Art Exhibition of Entrepreneur Photographers Association, a "Gold Award" at the 
National Photography Competition, a "Commendation Awa;::;;;r-=d'-"....:a:::..:;t....:tc:;;:h..::.e_.__ _____ ___. 
International Photography Contest, and a "Silver Prize" at the,__ ____ _.Photography 
Art Exhibition. Although the prizes and awards reflects some recognition of her work by the field, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her honors place her among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not establish that her 
receipts of such prizes and awards compare to those in the upper echelon of her field. Moreover, while 
she provided supporting documentation briefly listing her among all of the other prize and award 
recipients at the competitions and contests, the Petitioner did not show that she received significant 
attention demonstrating her sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Similarly, regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered seven articles relating to her and her work. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show how her overall media coverage is 
indicative of a level of success with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting on her and her activities reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a 
very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as a review committee member for the .__ _____ ====' 
Photo ra h Exhibition the Photography Exhibition, and th~ 
~---------------~ National Photography Exhibition. Although the names 
of the photography competitions indicate national exhibitions, the Petitioner submitted evidence 
reflecting regional contests; for example ( cpandet.org.cn): 
I 6 National Photography Exhibition is one of the top ten 
cultural brands oflistrict. . . . sponsored by the Propaganda Department of I loistrict CPC Committee and I I District Federation of 
Literary and Art Circles, and organized by I I District Photographers 
Association. 5 
Here, the Petitioner's judging experience involves evaluating the work of local and regional 
competitions, rather than nationally or internationally renowned contests. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that these three instances contribute to a finding that she has a 
career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. She did not show, for 
example, how her experience in judging regional or district competitions compares to others at the 
very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide 
attention from the field based on her review committee work judging local contests. Moreover, serving 
on review committees does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability 
and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. Cf, Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international ~a_cc_la_i_m~·----------~ 
5 Other examples of the absence of nati~hibitions include, ' Culture 
Photography Exhibition ... , sponsored byl__JPublic Welfare Foundation and.__ ___ --,--~C~u~l~tu~re~A~ca=d~e_m~_, 
and organized by Entrepreneurs Photographers Association I, ,t' (xu,-.....,.,......,__........., and "th I I National Photos:raubv Fxhipition ... , sponsored b Disable..,.d""'P-er_s_on_s..,..' -=F,....ed-,-e_ra_t~io_n_a_n...,.d__, 
Entrepreneur Photographers Associationl....,.: __ ___,,.J and organized by Group" (sohu.com). 
4 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). Without evidence 
that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of 
reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that her 
judging experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, displaying one's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases does not automatically place one 
at the top of the field. The Petitioner offered evidence reflectin various exhibitions, such as at the 
Photography Exhibition, the 14th and 1 h International Photography Festival, ,__ ______ --, 
the 2017 Photo Festival Exhibition, the 6t ~-~International Photography Exhibition, 2015 
Photo~-~ and the lstl I China International Exhibition of Photography. While the 
Petitioner presented her photography at various venues, she did not demonstrate, for instance, that her 
work brought wide praise from critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for 
the success of standings of the events. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish her work 
from others in her field or show that it reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field and sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that her work garnered a level of attention or was regularly 
seen at highly reputable venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage of the top of her field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted selected series of her work,i-..:s~u:::,::c:::::::h:....:a:::::s:...!l====:::::z:;-' 
'I I 1 11 r 1 l"I I' and'.___ ___ ______. 
along with recommendat10n letters that praised her and her work. However, the letters do not contain 
sufficient information to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as garnering national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. For 
example, letters from I ~ and I I indicated that two of the Petitioner's 
photographs displayed at PhotoLJwere purchased by private collectors. Here, the letters did not 
explain how the purchase of two of the Petitioner's pieces demonstrated sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field. The Petitioner, for example, did not establish that she received 
significant attention based on the selling prices or sales volume of her work, placing her among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, although her letters opined on her talents and skills, such as " the Petitioner 1s very 
talented and has a wide range [ of] interests and topics in photography" "[h ]er 
creativeness and passion to photography only grows when years go by",__ _____ _., and "[the 
Petitioner's] passion for art creations has never ceased, and I am proud to have witnessed her efforts 
and achievements on the artistic path of photography over the past 15 years'i I they did 
did not establish that she has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting 
a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Here, the letters 
5 
comment on the series of her works without showing how they represent an individual whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Further, the Petitioner provided documentation reflectin that she serves as the vice chairwoman of 
the Entrepreneur Photographers Association and the Women Photographers 
Association. Although she submitted letters from~----' and .__ ____ _. confirming her 
positions, they did not establish how the Petitioner's roles resulted in widespread acclaim from her 
field, that she drew significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers her to be 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Here, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her service to these associations caused her national or 
international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work in the field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17497613 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist in the field of molecular virology, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist in the field of mo""le;....;;c-"u=la=r_v....;;i;;;...ro;;..cl=o=gy.;...;_ . ...c;.A=t'-t=h=e-'t=im~e....;;o...c;.f_;;;;f=1l=in=g=,...;c;h;;.ce_w'-'-=asc...., 
employed as a postdoctoral research associate for the I I I la~~------~~ inl IT~enn-es-s-ee-. ----------~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner asserts that he can satisfy four of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Memberships in organizations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, related to judging the 
work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. We agree. The Petitioner submitted evidence that 
he is a member of the editorial board of Journal of Life Sciences and has served as a peer reviewer for 
other scientific journals in his field and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
In addition, the record reflects that he has authored articles published in professional publications 
included the Journal of Virology, Frontiers in Microbiology, and Journal of Biological Chemistry, 
thus satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in concluding that he did not satisfy the 
membership criterion or establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in his 
field. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that he has satisfied one additional 
criterion. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner maintains 
that the Director overlooked or excluded much of the evidence he submitted in support of this 
criterion 1 and states that, when viewed collectively, the record establishes that he has more likely than 
not made significant scientific contributions based on his original research. We find the Petitioner's 
claims ersuasive with respect to his research regarding the role of thel I 
which includes his 2019 article, I I 
published in Journal of Virology. 
The Petitioner provided two letters from University! I professor! I a 
permanent member of th .__ ___________________ __. ._ ____ _.l who 
served as the scientific editor for the Petitioner's first-authored publication in Journal of Virology, 
writes: 
~----~I is one of the most attractive and sought-after therapeutic targets for the 
development of next generatio dru s. I can confirm that [the Petitioner's] 
crucial work, using the investigationa has provided compelling 
biochemical evidence for a regulatory role o .__ _________ ___, His finding 
represents a significant advance in the ongoing efforts to discover and understand novel 
roles of I I infection and in the development of effectivd I inhibitors. 
~----_.I also emphasizes that the fact that the article was selected to be featured on the Journal 
of Virology's cover further validates it "high value and influence." Finally, he states, that, based on 
his own long-standing relationship with thg lhe can affirm that "the fact that [the Petitioner's] 
work was the basis of a successful I I grant funding, which is the most competitive and 
prestigious grant in the biomedical field, is clear proof that his research findings were evaluated and 
judged by the experts to be of significance and a major development in the field." 
I 7 a professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology atl • I 
Universiti ___ ~f°further explains that the Petitioner's findings "helped solve a longstanding and 
open-ended debate that had been marked by contradictory results ... on thel I function of 
~------~in virus replication." .... L ____ ___,J explained that he cited to the Petitioner's 
Journal of Virology article twice in his own 2019 Nature Microbiology paper, noting that he 
highlighted the Petitioner's work as a "vital and major development." He further states: 
The lack of understanding of the role o~ • I in these stei;,s of I I represents 
one of the last substantial knowledge gaps regarding thel hfecycle. [The 
Petitioner's] timely publication last year in the Journal of Virology provided a major 
breakthrough and clarity in the field. His ingenious work, b roviding a direct 
biochemical evidence tha can be blocked by an dru 
that specifically target established a functional role for ~--------~ 
1 The Director determined that "most of the letters were written by experts who have employed, instructed, or collaborated 
with you," and therefore could not show the recognition of the Petitioner's work outside his "circle of colleagues." 
However, as emphasized by the Petitioner on appeal, almost all the submitted letters were from experts in the field who 
have not employed or collaborated with the Petitioner. 
3 
replication. . .. [The Petitioner] set forth the few pror that I I !is critical 
for I len after entering the This finding has fundamentally 
advanced the field. 
I !Director of I jwith biopharmaceutical company! I I I also addresses the Petitioner's Journal o} Virology publication, noting that it "both 
fundamentally advanced basic research on! I and opened exciting new prospects for a second 
generation ofl !drugs that target these activities." He emphasizes that the Petitioner's 
work "yielded the first compelling evidence for a direct link betwee~ I" He 
describes the significance of the Petitioner's findings in technical detail and states that "the 
information revealed through [the Petitioner's] research on! I is very valuable to 
researchers in the field who strive to develop! I drugs." 
I indicates that he cited to the Petitioner's work in his own 2019 Nature Medicine article in 
.__w_h-ic_h_h_.is team reported on the discovery of anl ldrug that bind an inhibits the function of I I He further explains that "to rtend rre Petitioner's] work O to our newly disclosed I I ... my research team at and his research team at ____ l~ecuted a 
Material Trnsfer Arreement" which allows the Petitioner to investigate the effects ofl__J's newly 
discovered od I The Petitioner has provided a copy of the material transfer 
agreement. 
Based on this and other evidence related to this research, the Petitioner has ;rovided sufficient detail 
to establish the nature and significance of his contributions tol I research projects at I I Therefore, we conclude that he has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and 
established that he meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying three of 
the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner completed his bachelor's degree in biochemistry ad .... ___ ___. 
University in India in 1992 and his master of science in biochemsist a~ luniversity in 1995. 
He was subsequently employed as a research fellow at the - II I I inl I from 1996 to 1999, where he studied....._ _________ ___,_ 
2 See also 6 users Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual (stating that users officers should 
then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has 
established , by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification) . 
4 
~--~I The Petitioner received his doctorate degree in molecular virology fro~ I University 
in 2006. During his studies at I I he worked as a graduate research assistant in the De artment 
of Botany and Plant Pathology from 2000 to 2006. Since 2007,,J..ll,<.....u.u.>l....l.!.!o.<.lo..l..L.....U.LMJJ.~~.1.1....---....a, 
research, initially as a postdoctoral research visiting fellow in the.__ ___________ ~ _ __. 
.__-~-----~--' from 2007 to 2012. He later served as a special research volunteer in this 
program in 2013 and has been with the I I at~--------~since 2015, initially as 
a research assistant, and since 201 7, as a postdoctoral research associate. In 2018, the Petitioner was 
recognized as the "Postdoctoral Fellow of the Year" atl ~ based on his work 
atl I 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has judged the work of others within his field, authored scholarly 
articles, and made scientific contributions through his research, and we have considered other evidence 
in the record including evidence of his membership in a professional association and his presentations 
at conferences and meetings in his field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements to date reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990) or place him among that small percentage ofresearchers 
at the very top of his field. 
Regarding his service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience 
is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. Participation in the peer review 
process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international 
acclaim at the very top of their field. The Petitioner highlights~----------' of Journal 
of L[fe Sciences (JoLS) (previously published as Journal of Postdoctoral Research), which he had held 
since October 2017. 3 JoLS is described as "a Postdoc community initiative," which is "entirely run by 
Post-Doctoral research scientists from universities and research institutes across the world." According 
to the journal's website, its I I staff includes "senior and seasoned post-doctoral scientists with 
excellent publication and research experience." The journal emphasizes that it offers "rich learning 
opportunities to fresh Post-doctoral trainees," providing a forum for them "to participate and train in 
scientific writing, peer-reviewing, editing and building a compelling scientific resume." 
The Petitioner provided a letter from~--------------~ of JoLS, who confirms 
that the journal's .__ ____ ___."consists of accomplished postdoctoral scientists from various 
universities and research institutions." He states that the Petitioner was selected for his position as an I I through a "stringent selection rrocess" and because of his "international reputation 
as a leader in the area of Molecular Virology."4 _ I does not farther address the selection 
process or the specific criteria considered in the decision to select a researcher as anl I board 
~peal, the Petitioner provides evidence that he is currently.__ _______ _. ofJoLS and one of 130 ~ 
L___J' who form the Journal Topics Board for Vaccines, an open-access journal focused on laboratory and clinical 
vaccine research. The Petitioner did not hold these positions at the time of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
a[iudication 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(6)(1 ). 
4 I also discusses the Petitioner's role as a~ ______ _,for Society of Life Sciences, which is 
described as "outreach arm" of Journal of Life Sciences which showcases "the accomplishments and life stories of the 
stakeholders in the scientific research enterprise." The record does not reflect that the Petitioner's role with Society of 
Life involves peer review activities or other activities that involve judging the work of others in his field. 
5 
member, nor does the record contain evidence showing, for example, that other postdoctoral 
researchers who serve as JoLS1 I enjoy sustained acclaim at the top of their respective 
fields. 
The evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's editorial role for JoLS demonstrates he has been 
recognized by the journal as an accomplished postdoctoral researcher in his field. As noted, JoLS 
specifically seeks to highlight the research work of postdoctoral trainees and limits selection to its I I to "senior and seasoned post-doctoral scientists" thereby excluding much of the field 
in its selection process for these positions. The evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
role reflects or resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim or that it ~-----~ 
places him among the small percentage of scientists at the very top of his field, which includes all 
research scientists and not only postdoctoral researchers. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner has served as an ad hoc peer reviewer for JoLS and six other 
journals, including PLoS One, The Open AIDS Journal, and Infection and Drug Resistance. The 
Petitioner did not provide information from these journals reflecting their requirements or selection 
criteria for peer reviewers and therefore we cannot evaluate his judging activities in terms of those 
requirements. None of the invitation emails in the record indicate or imply that peer review for these 
specific journals is a privilege reserved for top experts, rather than a responsibility shared by individuals 
with relevant subject matter knowledge. The evidence regarding the Petitioner's service as a peer 
reviewer for journals verifies his expertise as researcher in the field of molecular virology but does 
not demonstrate that his service in this role is indicative of his widespread acclaim or elevated standing 
within his field. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I who serves as 
I latl IUniversity'sl !Medical I'-n-st-it-ut-e'.l====::;-ls-ta-t-es_, 
that "peer review is essential for validation and evaluation of research" and that "journal editors select 
and invite experts in the specific research area for this vital task." However, having subject matter 
expertise in a given field is a lower threshold than enjoying standing among the small 8ercentage at 
the very top of that field. With respect to the Petitioner's specific peer review experience,L I 
notes that his "selection to serve as a reviewer for several journals farther indicates that he is a notable 
researcher in the field," but he does not assert that the Petitioner's peer review activities have 
contributed to or reflect his sustained national or international acclaim among researchers in molecular 
virology. 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that he served as a judge for the 2012 Fellows Award for 
ponsored by the ._I _____ ___,..----,, _____________________ T_h_e_r_e_c_o~rd reflects that Petitioner won a 201 .... 11 __ __. 
award during his postdoctoral fellowship a Thd ~rds recognize "outstanding scientific 
research performed by intramural postdoctoral fellows" atLJ Fellows submit an abstract of their 
research, which is peer reviewed in a blind study section competition, and authors who score in the 
top 25% are recognized asl lwinners, receive a $1500 travel stipend to present their abstract at a 
scientific meeting, and serve as judges the following year. While the Petitioner's receipt of the award 
and resulting appointment to judge the I lompetition are notable professional achievements, the 
record does not establish that either the 2011 award or the associated judging opportunity for the 2012 
competition earned him national or international recognition. 
6 
Overall, we note that, without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that his judging experience to date places him among that small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how 
the number of reviews he conducted or the position he held on an editorial board compares to the 
judging activities of researchers at the top of the field or demonstrate that he has garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his peer review work. 
With respect to his authorship of scholarly articles, the Petitioner provided evidence that he published 
1 7 articles between 2006 and 2020, as well as a book chapter, published in 1999. 5 However, the 
Petitioner's publication of his research does not automatically place him at the top of the field and he 
has not provided evidence that directly compares his research output to that of others in his field. We 
acknowledge that some of the expert opinion letters address the Petitioner's publications among his 
other achievements. For example, I I of the University ofl I I I states that the Petitioner "has maintained a productive career as a scientific researcher in the 
United States," stating that this is evidenced by his publications in peer-reviewed journals and research 
presentations at conferences in the field. I I likewise praises the Petitioner's "considerable 
productivity" noting that he is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area of retrovirology," 
whose work is regularly "published in reputed journals" and selected for conference presentations. 
Although the record reflects that the Petitioner has 13 years of post-doctoral experience in the5? 
research field, we note that 14 of his 18 publications had been published since he joined I in 
2015, and that 12 of those were published since 2017. This evidence supports the expert opinions that 
he has become a productive researcher in the field, especially in recent years, but the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence that his publications have garnered him sustained national or international 
acclaim or place him among the small percentage of scientists at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
The Petitioner also emphasized that he published his work in "the leading forums in his field." He 
provided the journal impact factor for each journal that has published his work and noted that "many 
peer-reviewed journals are ranked in their field according to these impact factors." However, he did 
not provide their respective rankings. Nevertheless, we note that publication in a highly ranked journal 
in-and-of-itself does not indicate a petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. Moreover, 
a publication's impact factor simply reflects the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, 
however, show the influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has 
had an impact within the field. As discussed above, several of the expert opinion letters call particular 
attention to the Petitioner's publication in Journal of Virology and note the significance of having his 
2019 article featured as I I While we recognize that this publication is noteworthy, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that his overall publication record is tantamount to a career of acclaimed 
5 The Petitioner indicated that he had three additional manuscripts undergoing preparation or peer review when the petition 
was filed in July 2020. As noted. the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
work or that it demonstrates the required sustained national or international acclaim for this 
classification. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. 
Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d 
at 1122. At the time of filing, the Petitioner offered evidence from Google Scholar indicating that his 
articles had been cited 261 times, with his top three articles receiving approximately 123, 31, and 28 
citations, respectively. 6 While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that 
field has noticed his work, he did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate 
a level of interest in his field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
A letter froml I oti I University I I discusses four of the 
Petitioner' sl Ire search studies and states that "the citation record of [ the Petitioner's] 
impactful articles is quite high in his area of expertise and are commensurate with the citation record 
of other articles of major significance in the field published during the corresponding time period." 
However, the studies referenced b~ lhad accumulated between 0 and 11 citations, respectively, 
at the time he wrote his letter and no supporting evidence was submitted to establish that these numbers 
are "quite high." In addition,! I notes that one of the review articles co-authorel by thel 
Petitioner "remains one of the most frequently cited publication on the late events of 
I I' apparently in reference to the Petitioner's 2011 Physiology review article, which had 123 
citations at the time of filing. The Petitioner did not submit any other evidence in support of his claim 
that some of his individual articles have been highly cited or establish how such citations are indicative 
of or resulted in his national or international acclaim or recognition. Nor does he compare his 
cumulative citations to others in his field of endeavor. Based on the limited comparative information 
provided, the Petitioner did not show that the citations to his research represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that some of his articles published in on-line, open access journals have 
been viewed and downloaded with a frequency that far exceeds their citation rates, and have 
collectively been viewed and downloaded over 28,000 times as of the date of the appeal. This 
evidence, unlike evidence of citations to the Petitioner's work, does not demonstrate that other 
researchers have frequently applied or implemented the Petitioner's work, either in their own 
published research or in practice. The supporting evidence does not provide any context regarding the 
significance of these download numbers or a basis for comparison of the Petitioner's download 
statistics in relation to others in in his field. For example, we note that the numerous expert opinion 
letters in the record do not address the Petitioner's article views and downloads in discussing his 
achievements and reputation in the field. While the downloads may show that his articles have been 
read or reviewed, the record does not establish the importance or relevance of the figures provided. 
6 An updated Google Scholar profile submitted in response to a request for evidence indicated 287 cumulative citations to 
the Petitioner's work as of October 2020. The Petitioner's most-cited article is a 2011 review article published in 
Physiology. Three of the Petitioner's five most-cited articles were review articles, rather than publ'"[1'om o£bis ayginal 
research, with the remaining two aiiicles based on olant-based research he conducted a~ l0n the .r J virus. 
His most-cited original research publication in th[ I was his 2019 Journal of Virology article. 
8 
Specifically, he did not demonstrate that such download numbers sufficiently demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence related to his presentations at national and international 
conferences and laces articular em hasis on his particiTation as a presenter at multiple sessions of 
the~---~-~---~--~-,.......... Meeting onl I Participation in conferences 
demonstrates t at 1s origina researc m ings were shared with others in the field. I I I I a professor atc==lUniversity, emphasizes that it is significant that the Petitioner's 
work has been selected by ~r podium presentations on multiple occasions, noting that there 
are "hundreds of competing submissions" and that I I is "one of the most preeminent meetings in 
the field of1 !attended by national and international experts." I I mentions the 
fact that the Petitioner's research is "regularly selected for oral and poster presentations at major 
international conferences, including the renowned I O I meeting," in 
support of his opinion that the Petitioner is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area of I t' I I mentions that he personally "watched [the Petitioner's] notable talks 
and presentations at the internationally renowned .__ ____ __.I ~-------------------' 
The evidence related to the Petitioner's conference presentations provides support for a determination 
that his original research findings are valued for thJ1r significance in an active research field. While 
we do not doubt that the Petitioner's participation in and other meetings and conferences in his 
field has garnered him recognition from conference attendees who attended his talks and viewed his 
poster presentations, the record does not establish how his activities in this area compare to other 
researchers in his field. Further, while the record indicates that there is a competitive peer review 
process associated with participation in these conferences, the evidence does not demonstrate that 
podium and poster presentation opportunities are reserved only for those researchers who are at the 
very top of the field. The selection of the Petitioner's work for the~--------' meeting over 
several consecutive years is noteworthy and reflective of the high quality of that work. However, the 
record does not establish how the Petitioner's scholarly work, whether published or presented, has 
earned him sustained acclaim, or how it sets him apart from others and places him among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights his membership in Sigma Xi, asserting that the Director erred in 
determining that this scientific research honor society does not qualify as an association that requires 
its members to have outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). While we disagree with the Director's determination that 
Sigma Xi is not an "association," we agree that the evidence does not establish that it is one which 
requires its members to have outstanding achievements. The Petitioner submitted his membership 
certificate indicating that he was promoted to "foll membership" in 2011, two letters from Sigma Xi, 
the portion of the Sigma Xi bylaws that address membership requirements, and information from the 
society's website. The initial letter from Sigma Xi states that "[f]ull membership is conferred upon 
those who have demonstrated noteworthy achievements in research" and that "Sigma Xi interprets 
'noteworthy achievement' to include primary authorship of two papers" including refereed journal 
articles, patents or internal reports." According to this letter, "[t]he Society also considers career 
preparation, career path, quality of research and similar factors" although these requirements are not 
9 
stated elsewhere in the provided materials and no explanation was provided regarding how these 
factors are weighed. The subsequent letter from Sigma Xi states that "Full Membership is reserved 
to only those leading experts in the field, who have made noteworthy achievements. In our 
organizations' view, the term 'noteworthy' is the same as the term 'outstanding."' 
Even if we determined "noteworthy" and "outstanding" are synonymous and that publication of two 
first-authored publications can be deemed an "outstanding achievement," the record does not offer 
sufficient support for the assertion that only "leading experts in the field" are admitted to full 
membership, or that full membership in the organization reflects or results in national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner does not articulate a claim that he was recognized as a "leading expert" in his 
field when he was admitted as a full member of Sigma Xi in 2011. At that time, he had co-authored 
two published research articles, one in 2006 and one in 2011. While it appears that this record was 
sufficient to meet the "noteworthy achievements" requirement for promotion from associate member 
to full member, and his full membership is notable, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how such 
membership is indicative of his placement among the small percentage of scientific researchers who 
have risen to the top of the field. 
The record also contains 14 recommendation letters from 12 experts in the field that summarize the 
Petitioner's research and original contributions and, in some cases, comment on his overall 
achievements and reputation in the field. Most of the letters comment primarily on the Petitioner's 
research witH I during the few years preceding the filing of the petition. As discussed above, 
we have considered these letters and relied on them, in part, in determining that the Petitioner has been 
recognized for significant research contributions related ttj I based 
on his recent work atl I The importance of his work and contributions has been acknowledged 
through these letters and his record of participation in federally funded research projects, publications, 
presentations, and citations. However, as with all the regulatory criteria, satisfaction of the "original 
contributions" criterion does not establish eligibility or create a presumption of sustained national or 
international acclaim. Letters of this kind can assist in explaining and demonstrating the nature and 
impact of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with corroborating documentary evidence 
to establish that he is recognized as being at the top of the field. While we acknowledge that most of the 
letters are from scientists who have not directly worked or collaborated with the Petitioner, the record 
as a whole does not show that the writers' views represent the consensus within the field. 
While all the authors offer praise for the Petitioner's research achievements to date and expertise in his 
field, they are not uniform in their assessments of his standing and degree of acclaim and recognition in 
the field. As noted,,~-----,----~describes the Petitioner as having a " roductive career as a 
scientific researcher" and as an "expert and distinguished scientist in the field." notes that 
the Petitioner is "an impressive researcher and an expert in the area o " and notes his 
"considerable productivity and laudable professional contributions." ~------~' an assistant 
dean at the University ofl I states that he regards the Petitioner as an 
"extraordina[ and successful researcher," a "productive and prominent scientist" and a "very talented 
researcher." _ I describes the Petitioner's work as "commendable and praiseworthy," 
states that his capabilities as a researcher are "exemplary" and expresses his opinion that the Petitioner 
"will continue to be a leading scientist in the future." 
10 
Other letters include more direct assertions regarding the Petitioner's standing in the field ..... I ___ ____,. 
a Professor at I I University, states that he "would place [the Petitioner] among the top 
scientific talents in this vital field" based on his ublications, citat\ons presentations at conferences 
and selection as a peer reviewer for journals. of1 .... _ ---------~- states 
that the Petitioner is "well known internationa y as an 1 ustnous expert in the field." FurtherD I !describes the Petitioner as "clearly an individual of extraordinary abilities that are much 
sought after in the field," whilel lstates that the Petitioner, based on his contributions 
"exceeds the achievements and contributions of others within his field" and "has obtained an 
international reputation that places him at the top of his field." 
Here, while the letters (including those reviewed and not discussed here) praise the Petitioner's 
expertise and contributions to the field, they do not provide sufficient information and explanation, 
nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that he is already viewed by his 
overall field as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We acknowledge that some of the submitted letters referenced the Petitioner's 
publications, citation record, contributions, and peer review activities. However, as discussed above, 
we have reviewed this evidence and do not find, for example, that the Petitioner's experience as a peer 
reviewer or his citation record supports a finding that he has sustained acclaim and is at the very top 
of his field. The record establishes that the Petitioner has performed critical work in the0esearch 
field as a postdoctoral researcher in two distinguished laboratories, and that he has had the opportunity 
to publish and present his original findings. The evidence shows that the Petitioner has increasingly 
gained notice in the field for his research achievements over the past several years, particularly during 
his tenure a~._ ___ _.~nd that he is likely poised for sustained national or international recognition 
in the future. 
However, the record as a whole does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. 
Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at 
the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has the required sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 23, 2024 In Re: 32719881 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition 
for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. 
Later, the Petitioner filed eight motions, which we dismissed. The matter is now before us on a ninth 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
A motion that does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
For the following reasons, we are dismissing the Petitioner 's combined motions because they do not 
satisfy the requirements. 
The scope of any motion is limited to review of "the prior decision." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's eighth motion to reconsider, we 
determined that the Petitioner submitted a brief that was almost identical to the brief submitted with 
his seventh motion. See Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit, in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). We explained that disagreeing with 
our conclusions without showing how we erred as a matter oflaw or pointing to policy that contradicts 
our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Id. Therefore, the Petitioner 
did not show that his eighth motion met the requirements for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reopen affords a petitioner an opportunity to state new relevant facts, which must be 
supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . On motion to reopen, the Petitioner 
generally reiterates his eligibility as an individual ofextraordinary ability and resubmits evidence offered 
in support ofhis previous motions, which we considered in dismissing them. Since the current motion to 
reopen does not include new facts or new evidence, the motion does not meet the requirements ofa motion 
to reopen and must be dismissed. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 1) based on an incorrect application 
of law or policy, and 2) incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner again contends that he qualifies as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. He reiterates identical arguments made in support of his previous motion, while 
requesting a different outcome. We addressed the Petitioner's prior arguments in our earlier decisions, 
and his repetition of the same arguments does not show proper cause for reconsideration. Matter of 
O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. at 56. The purpose of a motion to reconsider is to show error in the most recent 
prior decision. This motion to reconsider does not meet this standard and must be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 23, 2024 In Re: 32526301 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a video game and digital entertainment company, seeks to permanently employ the 
Beneficiary as a senior staff graphics programmer. It requests his classification under the 
employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )( 1 )(A). Successful petitioners in this category must demonstrate that noncitizen beneficiaries 
have received "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively-documented recognition 
of their achievements in their fields. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Beneficiary met two of ten initial evidentiary requirements -one less than needed to obtain a final 
merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that it also satisfied two additional criteria: 
evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; and 
proofof his original contributions ofmajor significance in his field. The company alternatively argues 
that it has submitted "comparable evidence" to meet these criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the company has met the requisite number of initial criteria by submitting 
evidence of the Beneficiary's original contributions of major significance to the video game industry. 
We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify a beneficiary as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that 
the beneficiary: 
• Has "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seeks to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary criteria above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing a beneficiary among the small percentage at their field's 
very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov /policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Beneficiary, a Canadian native and citizen, has been programming graphics 
for video games for about the past 20 years. The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary's work involves 
creating algorithms and software to transform digital information into visually compelling images. 
His work -known as "graphics rendering programming " or "graphics rendering engineering" -
includes application of intricate lighting and shading techniques and integration of three-dimensional 
models underlying the visual aspects of video games. 
The Petitioner states that graphics rendering programming plays a critical role in a video game's 
overall success, bringing the game creator's vision to life by polishing the visual field that players see 
on their screens. Graphics' degrees of technical and artistic quality determine the extent of players' 
sensory and immersive experiences . 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following two initial evidentiary requirements: e vidence 
that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished 
reputations; and proof of his commandment of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services compared to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), (ix). On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that it also satisfied two additional criteria: evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field; and proof of his 
original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v). 
When adjudicating evidentiary criteria, USCIS determines whether "evidence submitted by the 
petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). USCIS may not "unilaterally impose novel 
substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5." Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1121. 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a beneficiary's occupation , a petitioner may submit "comparable 
evidence" to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
A. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the [noncitizen]'s original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether beneficiaries have made original 
contributions in their fields. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency 
then determines whether the original contributions are of major significance in the fields. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted: letters from former supervisors and co-workers of the Beneficiary and a 
U.S. professor of visual communication design; video game descriptions; and published articles about 
video games. The Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's "many original contributions" to specific 
video games. But the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's 
original contributions had major significance in the video game industry. 
The letters that the Petitioner provided, however, sufficiently show that the Beneficiary's 
programming innovations in specific video games significantly influenced the industry as a whole. 
The record shows that the Beneficiary has worked on more than 16 major video game projects. But 
his innovations in a 2005 action role-playing game provide an example of his contributions and their 
influence on the video game industry. In that game, the Beneficiary implemented a novel real-time 
physics-based bone system for animated characters. The visual design professor stated that this 
innovation occurred a year before introduction of the first dedicated processor for hardware­
accelerated physics in video games and several years before the addition of dedicated physics 
processors to video game consoles. The professor stated: 
Thus, for [the Beneficiary] to not only conceive of but design and implement this 
original system in [the game] was a contribution of major significance, as it 
demonstrated a run-time physics modeling system that can run smoothly on existing 
consoles without the need for dedicated hardware, necessarily influencing the trajectory 
of other developers' own design decisions due to the prominence of [the Beneficiary's 
then employer] in the industry. 
The letters state that, in the same game, the Beneficiary developed a camera system called "continuous 
collision detection" that allowed an in-game camera to "smoothly traverse and collide the virtual 
space" without jarring or sudden jumps when obstacles appeared. The professor stated that the 
Beneficiary "played a significant early role in demonstrating and popularizing this technology, which 
has since become standard in the videogame industry and is now widely implemented as a default 
functionality in ... popular videogame engines." 
Further, in the same 2005 game, the Beneficiary helped create a streaming system that allowed the 
game to load areas into memory based on a player's location or potential location and permitting the 
game to unload all unneeded areas. The professor stated: 
This process of "asset streaming," as it is now known, is widely utilized today in the 
video game industry but was a rarity at the time [the Beneficiary] contributed to [the 
3 
game]'s development, having only emerged around the millennium with the advent of 
home videogame consoles capable of 3D graphics .... [The Beneficiary] contributed 
impactfully to the adoption of in-game data streaming in 3D graphics rendering, a 
major trend which has facilitated the industry's focus on open-world (a.k.a. sandbox) 
video games ... and driven considerable innovation in the production of photorealistic 
graphics in the videogame industry. 
Thus, the Petitioner has submitted independent, objective evidence that the Beneficiary's original 
contributions have had major significance in the video game industry. We will therefore withdraw the 
Director's contrary finding. 
B. Remaining Arguments 
The Petitioner has met the required number of initial evidentiary criteria. Thus, we need not consider 
the company's remaining arguments regarding the Beneficiary's purported receipt of nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field or other comparable evidence. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal ifan applicant did not otherwise 
meet their burden of proof). 
As the Petitioner has met at least three initial evidentiary criteria, USCIS must now conduct a final 
merits determination. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B). Rather 
than make this determination in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements in his field identifying him as one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the field's very top. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The 
Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence, even if it does not fit a regulatory criterion 
or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The petition's approval or denial should stem from 
the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
By submitting proof that the Beneficiary made original contributions ofmajor significance in the video 
game industry, the Petitioner met the requisite third initial evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-M-S-, INC. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 24, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a molecular diagnostics company , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Beneficiary satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, in 
which she has to meet at least three, the Petitioner did not show her sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that the Beneficiary 
has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of her field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, located inl I California, employs the Beneficiary as an in vitro diagnostic (ND) 
assay development senior scientist. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the 
Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary met four of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record reflects that the Beneficiary authored approximately six scholarly 
articles in professional publications. In addition, the Petitioner demonstratej that t~e Renefi:iarv 
performed in a critical role in the development of a molecular diagnostic test fo I I I Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the scholarly 
articles and leading or critical role criteria. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not 
concur with the Director's determination that the Beneficiary fulfilled the original contributions and 
high salary criteria. 
2 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that the Beneficiary satisfied this criterion without identifying the original 
contributions of major significance and explaining her determination. In order to satisfy the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has a beneficiary made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, 
have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion, we will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary "is the co-inventor on a patent for 
a new methodology she developed at~------~that is used in a molecular diagnostic test 
for sepsis, which is a potentially life-threatening complication of an infection." In general, a patent 
recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish it as a contribution 
of major significance in the field. Further, the Petitioner provided three recommendation letters that 
discussed the Beneficiary's involvement in the methodology but do not demonstrate that it resulted in 
a contribution or mljor significance in the field. For instance,--------~ professor of 
microbiology at , described the Beneficiary's role in the research group and indicated that the 
method "allows for microbial! I recovery from patient blood sample in less than 45 minutes 
in sufficient quantity and quality for identification by a molecular test." However, I I did 
not explain how the method or patent has significantly impacted or influenced the field. 
In addition, ________ head of the community-university liaison office atD confirmed 
that the Beneficiary "was part of the scientific team that developed an original method for extracting I lfrom various microorganisms in blood infections" but did not further elaborate in explaining 
how the method is viewed in the field as having been of major significance. Instead, I I 
speculated on the potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly significant at some point 
in the future. For exampleJ !stated that "[t]he new method might assist physicians in rapidly 
and accurately diagnosing sepsis, which would ultimately benefit patients, decrease hospital stays, and 
improve laboratory efficiency." Moreover,! I claimed that "[t]he time saved with [the 
Beneficiary's] patented method can be critically important when treating diseases." Similarly, D ~------~ associate professor at the University of I I. asserted that "the 
potential application ... will continue to guide research guide research in the field" and "has thus 
served as the potential launching point for researcher, medical practitioners, and businesses alike." 
While the letters may show promise in the Beneficiary's method, they do not establish how her method 
already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of her method has yet to be determined or measured. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator"s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary's "patent has also garnered a significant 
number of citations, being cited by 20 other patent applications." However, the Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations. In addition, although citations are indicative 
that her work has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
citation numbers represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 2 Here, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that the Beneficiary's citations to her patent are commensurate with contributions 
of major significance. 
Moreover, the Petitioner asserted that D "has licensed the technology to a prominent company that 
is marketing it commercially (though the identity of this company is confidential based on the licensing 
agreement)." However, the licensing or marketing of a product based on the Beneficiary's patent does 
not necessarily show a contribution of major significance in the field. Further, without evidence 
demonstrating the extensive use, application, or influence, the Petitioner did not establish the overall 
field's general view of the technology as a contribution of major significance. 3 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary's "work on the._l _____ _. 
.__ _______ ~ a molecular diagnostic test for I l is another original contribution of 
major significance." The Petitioner provided two recommendation letters that described her role in 
the development ofl I for0 and made general statements without demonstrating the major 
significance of thel lin the overall field. For example, I l staff scientist 
at~ indicated that the Beneficiary "was part of lead to two patent applications," "was actively 
involved in the development as well as in decision making on key design details," and "was one of the 
most senior scientists of the group working on the project." In the case hereJ I did not 
establish how her role m developing I I constituted an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Further,.__ _______ __. senior director for research and development atO stated that theD I l'has major significance in the field based on its improved diagnostic performance and its wide 
implementation." However,.__ ______ __.did not farther elaborate on her claim of "wide 
implementation" to show that the field considers the I I to be a contribution of major 
significance. 4 Further, whilL I indicated that the I I "has generated more 
than $ l 5M in revenue" for LJ she did not establish the impact to the overall field beyond the 
employer. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field. may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisty the petitioner's burden of proof F edin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
4 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact the Beneficiary's work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
As discussed earlier, we found that the Petitioner's evidence, including press releases and promotional 
material from O and indeQendent clinical studies, demonstrated the Beneficiary's critical role in 
developing I I for D meeting the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a 
beneficiary meet at least three separate criteria, we will generally not consider evidence relating to the 
ITdini or critical role criterion. Regardless, while the evidence shows that the Beneficiary contributed 
to activities, the Petitioner did not show the unusual influence or great impact in the overall field 
beyond her employer. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the finding of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary fulfilled this criterion without any discussion of the 
Petitioner's arguments or evaluation of the submitted documentation. In order to meet this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that a beneficiary's salary or remuneration is high relative to the 
compensation paid to others working in the field. 7 As the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary has commanded a high salary in relation to others, we must withdraw the Director's 
decision for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner indicated it its initial cover letter that it has employed the 
Beneficiary as an IVD assay development senior scientist. In addition, the Petitioner provided the 
Beneficiary's 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, reflecting an annual salary of $108,000. As 
a comparison, the Petitioner submitted prevailing wage data from the Foreign Labor Certification Data 
Center (FLCDC) for "biological scientists" reflecting a Level 4 Wage of $92,955 per year.8 In 
addition, the Petitioner offered a screenshot from glassdoor.com for "molecular biologists" reflecting 
a high salary of $93,000. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 The Level 4 Wage relates to fully competent employees. See Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance, 
http://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_11 _2009.pdf at page 7, accessed on July 23, 2019, and 
incorporated into record of proceedings. 
5 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
Although the Petitioner compares the Beneficiary's compensation to molecular biologists, her position 
is a senior scientist. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that the Beneficiary has earned a 
high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services 
in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the fully competent wage 
information for molecular biologists constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. Moreover, the 
record contains a screenshot from salarylist.com reflecting salaries for senior scientists. Specifically, 
the screenshot shows that the average salary for senior scientists is $86,781, with $250,000 classified 
as "high." Thus, the Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary earned a salary 
placing her at the high end of the spectrum for wages of other senior scientists. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory 
criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
the petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 
6 
Matter of C-M-S-, Inc. 
of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-M-S-, Inc., ID# 3712113 (AAO July 24, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 24, 2023 In Re: 27437533 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims employment as a ostdoctoral researcher in the field ofmolecular biolo at the 
~partment of Agriculture's.__ _______ ..,....____________ --,-_____. m 
L__JIllinois. He received his Ph.D. in science from.__ ____________ _. niversity. 
He indicates his intention to continue his work in the same field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related 
to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi) and concluded that he satisfied only two 
criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate his 
service as a judge of the work of others and his authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his 
original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field by peer reviewing 
manuscripts for professional journals and that he has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications, including Microbial Biotechnology, Biomass Conversion and Biorefine,y, and 
Bioresource Technology Reports. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has also made original contributions of major significance 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence submitted in 
support of the criterion. 1 We will discuss the evidence submitted in support of this criterion below. 
1 The Petitioner did not claim eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (vii), (viii), (ix), or (x) before the Director 
or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these seven criteria on appeal, we consider 
these issues to be abandoned. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing 
party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 
401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); 
Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs' claims 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In his personal statements, the Petitioner explained that atl lhe is working on the development 
of novel antimicrobial molecules, most recently phage-based endolysin technology, to target bacterial 
contamination in biorefineries in a manner that will avoid antimicrobial resistance. He claims that he 
has made three original contributions of major significance in the field, as evidenced by his published 
research, citation record, letters from experts in the field, and other evidence. Specifically, he 
highlighted the following areas of research: (1) using alternatives to antibiotics to control bacterial 
infection with probiotics; (2) developing novel strain-specific antimicrobials that have a lower chance 
of promoting resistance; and (3) identifying novel molecules that enhance the effect of present 
antibiotics. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, point to the citation of his 
work by others, and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do not 
demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. 
Two letters from the Petitioner's supervisor atl ~iscuss his work on antimicrobial peptides for 
use in the biofoel industry and the development of novel probiotics, and praise his bioinformatic 
expertise. 2 Specifically, his supervisor states that the Petitioner identified a peptide with significant 
utility in preventing microbial growth in biorefineries and several novel antimicrobial endolysin genes 
that show significant potential to control infections. He provides that the Petitioner has identified 
numerous genes in the genome sequences of refinery contaminants that can potentially be used to 
produce unique antimicrobial compounds. Further, he "has made significant progress" on the use of 
a novel pore-forming protein for biorefining contamination control and has collaborated on the 
development of a yeast surface display system that may be used in biorefineries "in the next few 
years." 
Letters from two colleagues at I I Agricultural Research Services praise his "high technical 
prowess" in protein purification, chromatography, cell cloning, cell imaging, cell assays, and 
bioinformatics. They provide that his 2019 article I II I regarding a method for mining metagenomics for enzymes to improve conversion 
of biomass to sugars at a reasonable cost, was featured in a review article published in Biomass 
Conversion and Biorefinery. 
2 While we discuss a sampling of the letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the director ofl !University's Laboratory of Renewable 
Resources Engineering (LORRE), where he was previously employed as a visiting research associate. 
The director states that Petitioner made "outstanding contributions" to the process engineering of 
converting corn stover (cornstalks) to slurries and to sugars that are fermented to ethanol, making "a 
major step forward" in reducing costs by decreasing the amounts of enzymes required for the 
conversion steps. He also asserts that the Petitioner's research has "influrced others in his field," 
and provides that research teams froml~---~pniversity andl University have used his 
research to corroborate their own findings, respectively, on rumen enzymes and increased sheer stress 
and energy consumption during biomass processing at high load. The letter, however, does not 
sufficiently detail in what ways the Petitioner has advanced the state of research in his field or 
elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider field beyond the teams of 
researchers who have directly cited his work on these topics. While the record indicates that other 
researchers have built upon the Petitioner's research, the evidence does not establish that the field 
views the Petitioner's work as a contribution of major significance. 
Although the above letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings and make broad statements 
regarding their significance in the field, they do not contain sufficient information detailing how his 
work has been of major significance. In fact, some letters hypothesize on the effect of the Petitioner's 
research at some undetermined time in the future. For example, in his above letters, the Petitioner's 
supervisor atl lopined that his work "has provided new key tools" for overcoming antibiotic 
resistance in industrial processes and "has potential" to develop broad spectrum antimicrobial 
I compounds Ifor use in other medical applications. A letter from the CEO ofI I
states that the Petitioner's work on the development of novel phage-based antibiotics to 
be used in biorefineries to overcome the exploitation of current antibiotics holds potential, in the near 
term, to be available to bioethanol refineries to mitigate contamination. 
Here, the letters do not show that the significant nature of his research has already been realized or has 
been implemented or utilized in a manner consistent with major significance. The letters considered 
above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research studies 
without describing a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of molecular 
biology, provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific 
field. 3 The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has 
had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But this evidence 
does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of molecular biology rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 204.5(h)(4)). 
4 
shown that his findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of[his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "4 
The Petitioner also provided evidence from I I showing that two of his articles were 
ranked among the top 10% ( and two others were ranked in the top 20%) when grouped by academic 
field (in this case, biology and biochemistry),5 and year of publication. He also submitted a paper 
published in the journal Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of three that should be 
used to evaluate individual researchers in the natural and life sciences for purposes of fonding and 
promotion or hiring decisions. 6 The authors ofthe paper state that "publications which are among the 
10% most cited publications in their subject area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that 
"the top 10% based excellence indicators" should be given "the highest weight when comparing the 
scientific performance of single researchers." However, this evidence does not establish that metrics 
that may be suitable for comparing applicants for academic research positions and grants are indicators 
that a researcher has made contributions of major significance to his or her field. 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution ofmajor significance in the field. A more appropriate analysis, for 
example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly 
cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. Highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance," as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. We also acknowledge that the Petitioner provided evidence that four of his articles were 
published in journals with high rankings based on their impact factor. However, a publication's high 
ranking or impact is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the 
influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's research impacted the field, or 
establish a contribution of major significance in the field. That context must be provided by other 
evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the four articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution ofmajor significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted samples of partial research articles that cited to his work. As 
discussed, the Petitioner has demonstrated that others have cited to his work in their journal papers. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 Although the Petitioner highlights the field of biology and biochemistry, it appears that the field of molecular biology 
and genetics may more accurately reflect the Petitioner's work. 
6 On appeal he also submits an additional article, "Measuring the Impact ofYour Publications," from Tischlibrary.tuft:s.edu, 
which suggests that this metric is one of several that should be used "[ w ]hen preparing for tenure." 
5 
However, the mere citation ofwork by others does not automatically show "major significance." Here, 
the partial articles do not reflect the impact of the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to his work. For instance, as the Director noted, the Petitioner provided a partial 
article entitled, 'I I(Nature Reviews Cancer), in 
which the authors cite to his 2013 Journal o_fMedicinal Chemistry article.7 However, the article does 
not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers, of which there 
are more than 140, nor does the article credit his work for being majorly significant. 
The submitted research articles reference the Petitioner's work as evidence of recent research, and, 
while the articles indicate that the authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's work, as well as 
the work ofthe other cited scientists, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the overall field views his 
published findings as original contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not show 
that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance," as required by this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation that his publications have been cited in two review 
articles, and submits a screenshot of a page from the website ofthe University! Ititled 
This evidence indicates that review articles are "an ~-----------------~ attempt to ... sum up the current state of the research on a particular topic" and may identify "the 
main people working in a field" and "recent ma·or advances and discoveries." One of the submitted 
review articles titled ' 
~----------------------------------~(Biomass 
Conversion and Biorefinery ), cites to the Petitioner's 2019 International Journal of Biological 
Macromolecule article among at least 208 other articles. While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears to be an active field ofresearch, we cannot 
determine that every publication cited in a review article is indicative of majorly significant. 
On appeal, counsel again references one of our non-precedent decisions concerning a scientific 
researcher who petitioned under this classification. As noted by the Director, this decision was not 
published as precedent and therefore does not bind U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the decision although we will not discuss it separately. Counsel 
emphasizes that the referenced non-precedent decision demonstrates that we have previously 
determined that "dozens" of citations "are good evidence of a petitioner's contributions of major 
significance." However, the non-precedent decision also highlights the fact that we placed significant 
weight on the statements of experts who clearly described how the petitioner's scientific contributions 
were both original and ofmajor significance in their field. The expert opinion letters submitted in this 
matter did not contain sufficient probative analysis regarding the major significance ofthe Petitioner's 
contributions. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that his research has been funded by the government oflndia. Within 
his response to the Director's request for evidence he submitted documentation that in 2013 his 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
proposal for a spore probiotic supplement for farm animals received incubator funding from the 
"Ministry of MSME." Receiving fonding to conduct research is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of itself. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving the grant is reflective 
of his past work's major significance, or that his research conducted with the grant resulted in a 
contribution of major significance in the field. The record does not contain any evidence illustrating 
how the funding reflected the importance of the Petitioner's contributions, or the research results of 
the Ministry ofMSME funding and whether they are majorly significant in the field. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting ofthe citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow molecular biologists and other experts, 
establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a 
contribution of major significance in the field of molecular biology. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and published his work, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL.24, 2024 In Re: 31728489 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner is a visual artist and contends he has sustained national and international acclaim. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (vii), display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met one criterion pertaining to the display of his work in the 
field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. We will not disturb the Director's determination regarding 
the Petitioner's display ofhis work. On appeal, the Petitioner does not pursue his initial claim that he 
meets the criteria relating to high remuneration for services, nor does he contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding this issue. We therefore consider this issue abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the display criteria, but he also satisfies one additional category of evidence of published 
material about the individual in professional or major media. The Petitioner has therefore satisfied 
two criteria and must satisfy one more to prevail. As discussed below, we conclude he has not. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att 'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.3 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that he was awarded the 2019 
Fellowship. The Petitioner further explained that the is the only 
dedicated _________________________________ 
art and foster the artists who create it. In a letter by the executive director of the museum, the author 
explained that the 10 months fellowship is a program "made up of seminars and mentorship services 
designed to help artists maximize their potential while also engaging in critical discourse." The 
Petitioner further states on appeal that this fellowship is an "internationally recognized prize since it 
has been frequently featured in major art publications such as Artnet, which attracts 6.2 million 
monthly website visitors." However, the record does not contain any additional information or 
supporting evidence regarding the competition to support the Petitioner's claim that his selection for 
this fellowship should be considered a nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field 
of visual art. For example, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation on the process of 
how individuals are selected and awarded the fellowship, and information regarding the individuals 
who determine who is selected for the fellowship. In addition, the record does not contain official 
results or other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the competition in the year he was 
awarded the fellowship. 
The Petitioner also did not provide sufficient evidence of the level of recognition associated with this 
award. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that this fellowship is internationally recognized because it 
has been featured in major art publications. While the fellowship may receive media attention, the 
record lacks sufficient evidence verifying that this fellowship is a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner himself received any 
recognition from outside the issuing organization. Even if the media attention evidences national or 
international recognition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish whether the 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ofEvidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
award itself is nationally or internationally recognized and awarded for excellence in the field ofvisual 
arts. 
Although the Petitioner does not discuss any other awards on appeal, a review ofthe awards discussed 
in the initial petition also do not contain sufficient evidence regarding the rules and selection process 
for granting the awards, official results for the entire competition, the number of competitors and prize 
winners in each age and category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which he 
received an award. Further, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to determine that the 
Petitioner's awards for the noted competitions are a nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award for excellence in the field of visual arts. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 4 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion since he was featured in several articles 
published in major media. On appeal, he specifically discusses an article published by The Advocate, 
and states it is a publication with 2.04 million monthly website visitors. The Petitioner submitted a 
printout from The Advocate 's website indicating that onl I2021, the Petitioner was profiled in an 
article entitled, This piece 
reviewed the Petitioner's exhibit, and his journey as an artist. The Petitioner 
also submitted, among other articles, an article from The New York Times discussing his artwork and 
the work of other contemporary artists. The piece discusses an individual that will donate 150 pieces 
of artwork, including the Petitioner's art, as part of the donated collection. The Director determined 
that the article was not specifically published material about the Petitioner. However, the submitted 
evidence reflects that the Petitioner was one of a few artists featured in a major publication in a 
populous city known for its abundance of artists, and these individuals were singled out to express 
their experience through their art during prominent events such as exhibits and a donation of an 
important art collection. The evidence ofrecord meets the plain language ofthis criterion, and we will 
withdraw the Director's conclusion on this specific matter. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ofEvidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than having major significance to 
a project or to an organization. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022)(citing 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013)). The regulatory phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 
(2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute is to be given effect and none should 
needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate another provision or to have no 
consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than 
being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes that the 
Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims to have made original contributions in the field of visual arts and submitted 
letters of support and articles in support of this assertion. In denying the petition, the Director 
determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director "overly generalizes 
based on randomly chosen and cherrypicked sentences from some letters submitted" and overlooks 
documentary evidence such as press articles. For example, the Petitioner states that an article from 
Culbytes, an online art and culture news publication, published an article highlighting the originality 
and innovative nature of the Petitioner's art. The Petitioner em hasized that the article indicated he 
has his own and is 
authentically creating original art using The Petitioner further states that he 
submitted several articles published in major media that described his artwork as innovative, inventive, 
original and unique. 
Upon review of the record, the authors of the letters and articles submitted with the petition attest to 
the talent of the Petitioner, but do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's methods or 
techniques have influenced the work of other visual artists, or otherwise equate to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Also, the submitted documentation does not include 
an explanation as to how the Petitioner's choice of methods differs from that of other visual artists. 
The plain language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's contributions be "ofmajor 
significance in the field" rather than limited to the person he teaches or mentors or personally 
purchases his art. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Although we acknowledge the achievement of articles published regarding the Petitioner's artwork 
and its originality, what is lacking is the Petitioner's account of how that equates to this criterion's 
requirements. While the Petitioner submits letters of support and articles discussing the Petitioner's 
work as original and inventive, it does not necessarily mean that his valued art has significantly 
contributed to the field as a whole. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices); 
see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met 
this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Publications alone 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were ofmajor significance. 
5 
The Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone 
demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Even considering the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, we still conclude he has not 
shown that his work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help establish whether a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, this criterion requires that the organization or 
establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision 
and instead contends throughout his career he performed a critical role as a visual artist and board 
member for I I On appeal, I the Petitioner submits a letter from I 
Chairperson ofl IMr. explained that he has known the Petitioner since 
childhood since he is his son's best friend and he invited the Petitioner to work with I I 
I I Art Fair during his summer breaks from college. He explained that for nearly a decade, the 
Petitioner worked as an "Editor of the Fair" where he oversaw its quarterly magazine and written 
material for public programming; oversaw keynote presentations, presentation and catalogues for the 
New York Times "running point" for the partnership with the 
gave a speech at an event for and, lead the 
Photography Advisory Board. Mr. stated that his duties on the Board include, "helping curate 
a selection of contemporary photography artists to be highlighted in a special exhibition at the fair, 
inviting photography-specific art galleries to participate in the fair, and overseeing the fair public 
programming with regards to speakers from photography institutions." 
Upon review of the letter from the chairperson of D the author provided a brief and general 
explanation of the Petitioner's duties in his roles working with the Art Fair. The Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient documentation to establish he played a critical role in an organization. For example, 
the documentation does not establish that he performed a critical role for an organization as a whole, 
such as by showing he influenced its overall reputation or status, or that he was responsible for the 
organization's success. Nor does the letter show that the Petitioner played a critical role as the letters 
primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions without specifically 
6 
identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those contributions were critical to 
the success of While the Petitioner worked on projects to enhance programs, and thereby 
supported its mission, he did not provide sufficient documentary evidence to show that his duties and 
responsibilities were critical to the greater organization. The letter does not describe with sufficient 
detail how the Petitioner himself played a critical role in the successesOenjoyed. Every employee 
fulfills some kind of role that benefits their employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that his work for Dwas critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of 
specific, limited tasks or projects. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 5 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 24, 2024 In Re: 32600739 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a doctor of traditional Chinese medicine, seeks classification under the employment­
based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
Successful petitioners in this category must demonstrate their receipt of "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director found that the Petitioner 
-who had to meet at least three of ten initial evidentiary requirements -did not satisfy any of them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked or misanalysed evidence of his: 
• Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• Participation as a judge of others' work in the field; 
• Original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• Commandment of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in the field. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has met the requisite number of initial evidentiary criteria. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary criteria above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese native and citizen, worked as a pharmaceutical 
technician, founded a consulting business, and learned traditional Chinese medicine before 
establishing his own clinic in 2018. He then developed a unique treatment for liver ascites and 
menstrual pain, and created a specialized "Tuina" massage technique for juvenile nearsightedness. 
More recently, he has established chronic disease management and youth vision care centers in China 
and lectured in that country and Hong Kong on his therapies. 
The Petitioner seeks to come to the United States to establish Chinese medicine clinics in the 
I ICalifornia area. He states that he will treat patients with the low-cost, painless therapies he has 
developed and train others in their applications. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major, international 
award. He must therefore meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet evidentiary requirements for his: 
• Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• Participation as a judge of others' work in the field; 
• Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations; or 
• Commandment of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in the field. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii, iv, v, viii, ix). Except for performance in a leading or critical role, the 
Petitioner contends on appeal that he meets the evidentiary criteria the Director found lacking. 2 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically assert that he met the criterion for evidence ofhis performance in a leading 
or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations, or that the Director erred in finding the requirement 
criterion unsatisfied. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We therefore consider the issue to be "waived." See, e.g., Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
When adjudicating initial evidentiary requirements, users determines whether a petitioner's proof 
"objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of evidence." 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). The Agency may not "unilaterally impose novel substantive or 
evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5." Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121. 
A. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[e ]vidence of the [ noncitizen ]'s original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
When adjudicating this requirement, users first determines whether beneficiaries have made original 
contributions in their fields. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). If so, the Agency 
then determines whether the original contributions are of major significance in the fields. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted documentation that he copyrighted his treatments for liver ascites/menstrual 
pain and juvenile nearsightedness in China and licensed designated Chinese medical clinics and 
institutions to provide these therapies. The Director, however, found that: 
the evidence appears to indicate that the [therapies] are being used in China, not more 
widely by the entire field. The evidence does not indicate that the petitioner's work is 
being widely utilized by physicians in the field, reaching far beyond the petitioner's 
employer, clients, or customers. 
The record, however, indicates that traditional Chinese medicine, while used around the world, 
remains most popular in its country of origin. We therefore do not find the geographical licensing 
limitation of the Petitioner's therapies to China to substantially undermine their significance in the 
field. 
As the Petitioner argues, users policy supports his evidence under this criteria. Proof of original 
contributions of major significance can include "[p]atents or licenses deriving from the person's work 
or evidence of commercial use of the person's work." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). Further, 
"evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or 
commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original contribution to the field." 
Id. 
The Petitioner's copyrighting of his therapies demonstrates their originality. Also, not only do the 
therapies provide him with a significant annual salary of 1.2 million yuan -or about $165,948 -at his 
own clinic, but the record shows that he has also licensed his therapies to other practitioners in the 
field, generating another annual 1.6 million yuan -or about $221,263. The commercialization of his 
therapies show significance in the field. Further, he submitted letters from experts in the traditional 
Chinese medicine field describing his therapies as "distinguished," "remarkable," "innovative," and 
"important." 
Thus, contrary to the Director's finding, the Petitioner has met the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) by submitting proof of his original contributions of major significance in his field. 
3 
B. Participation as a Judge 
This criterion requires "[e]vidence ofthe [noncitizen]'s participation, either individually or on a panel, 
as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation from the 
I I indicating his participation as an "expert judge" evaluating three projects involving 
traditional Chinese medicine therapies in 2021 and 2022. The Director, however, found insufficient 
evidence of the evaluations' relevance to the Petitioner's field, how he was selected to judge, or the 
level of acclaim for his activities. The Director stated: 
[T]here is no evidence showing the names ofthe participants evaluated by the petitioner, 
their level of expertise, the specific competitive categories he judged, and the 
significance and magnitude of the competition. Without independent objective evidence 
of how this relates to the petitioner's field of expertise and that the activities were 
consistent with sustained national or international acclaim at the very top level of his 
field, the evidence contains no probative value. 
The Director imposed evidentiary requirements beyond those stated in the regulatory criterion. The 
criterion does not require evidence of the basis of the Petitioner's selection as a judge, the level of 
acclaim resulting from his participation, the participants' names, or the evaluations' significance and 
magnitude. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 (barring USCIS from "unilaterally impos[ing] novel 
substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5)". 
As the Director noted, the criterion requires the judged work to be in the Petitioner's "same or an allied 
field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). But contrary to the Director's finding, the record demonstrates 
that the projects the Petitioner evaluated involved the traditional Chinese medicine field. The 
I association's invitation letters stated the projects' titles, which referenced traditional 
Chinese therapies such as Tuina and moxibustion. 3 The Petitioner also provided biographical 
information about the projects' leaders, who included chief and attending physicians at traditional 
Chinese medicine hospitals. Thus, the record established the evaluations' relevance to the Petitioner's 
field. 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner submitted evidence of his participation as a 
judge of the work of others in his same field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary 
finding. 
3 Moxibustion is a type of traditional Chinese medicine. It involves burning moxa, a cone or stick made of ground mug 
wort leaves, on or near a body's meridians and acupuncture points. Healthline, "What Is Moxibustion?" 
www.healthline.com/health. 
4 
C. High Salary or Remuneration 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate from the clinic he founded and other documentation of his gross 
income from October 2022 to October 2023. He also provided copies of two 2023 online salary 
surveys regarding Chinese doctors of both modem and traditional medicine. 
The Director noted that the Petitioner earned some of his income from his copyrighted therapies and 
by working as a visiting professor. But, considering only his role as a doctor of traditional Chinese 
medicine at his clinic, the evidence shows that he earned 1.2 million yuan over the one-year period. 
One online survey shows that the average Chinese doctor of modern medicine earns 690,481 yuan a 
year and that senior doctors with at least eight years' experience average 903,124 yuan a year. The 
other survey shows that annual salaries of Chinese doctors of traditional Chinese medicine range from 
40,000 to 360,000 yuan. Thus, measured against Chinese doctors of both modem and traditional 
medicine, the record indicates that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary. 
The Director found that the Petitioner's income certificate from his clinic was "not necessarily 
evidence of actual earned wages" but rather represented "the anticipation of earnings." The record, 
however, does not support the Director's finding. The income certificate states the Petitioner's 
earnings "for the previous year" (October 2022 to October 2023). Thus, the certificate does not 
represent "the anticipation of earnings." 
Also, as the Petitioner argues on appeal: 
USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has commanded" [in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix)] 
to mean that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration in order 
to meet the criterion. Rather, a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary 
or remuneration may establish that the person has been able to command such 
compensation. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l ). Thus, the Director also erred by stating that evidence of high 
salary or remuneration must include proof of "actual earned wages." 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his commandment of a high salary in relation to others in the 
Chinese medicine field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievements 
The Petitioner has demonstrated his satisfaction ofthree initial evidentiary requirements. We therefore 
need not consider his appellate arguments that, under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ii), he also provided proof 
of his membership in associations that require outstanding achievements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues 
unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
5 
2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant did not otherwise meet their 
burden of proof). 
USCIS must now conduct a final merits determination on the Petitioner's request for classification as 
a noncitizen ofextraordinary ability. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). The Director did not make a final merits determination. Rather than conduct such 
a finding in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must decide whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in his field, identifying him as one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .(2)(B)(2). The Director 
should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, even ifit does not fit one ofthe regulatory 
criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The Director should base the petition's 
approval or denial on the type and quality of evidence submitted. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met at least three of the requested category's ten initial evidentiary criteria. USCIS 
must now conduct a final merits decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 25, 2024 In Re: 28792601 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cancer biology researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate in biotechnology in his native India in 2009, and subsequently 
received postdoctoral training in one-to two-year positions at various institutions in India and the 
United States. Most recently, in May 2022, the Petitioner began working as a research scientist at I ITexas. He left the United States shortly after the petition was denied 
in April 2023. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one criterion, pertaining to his authorship of 
scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied three initial criteria. We will 
discuss the remaining two claimed criteria below. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner stated that his peer review of manuscripts for scholarly journals satisfies the requirements 
of this criterion. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of "email correspondence 
thanking the petitioner for his peer review of articles," but the Director concluded that "the record fails to 
sufficiently demonstrate that the petitioner was, in fact, invited or otherwise appointed in an official 
capacity, to judge the work of others." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not adequately explain how the Petitioner's evidence 
is insufficient. We agree with the Petitioner that the evidence ofrecord is sufficient to meet the regulatory 
requirements. The USCIS Policy Manual specifies that "[p]Jeer reviewing for a scholarly journal" 
2 
qualifies as judging the work of others, as long as the petitioner submits "proof that the review was 
actually completed." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. The Petitioner has submitted evidence to that effect, in the form ofemail messages both soliciting 
the Petitioner's involvement and, later, thanking him for submitting completed reviews. 
Whether a petitioner's involvement in peer review also indicates sustained national or international 
acclaim is a separate question, to be addressed in the final merits determination on remand. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted several letters and documentation of citations of his 
published work. 
The submitted letters are not wholly persuasive by themselves. Detailed letters from experts in the field 
explaining the nature and significance of the person's contribution may provide valuable context for 
evaluating the claimed original contributions ofmajor significance, particularly when the record includes 
documentation corroborating the claimed significance. Submitted letters should specifically describe the 
person's contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's 
knowledge and expertise. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
Here, researchers at various universities state that the Petitioner's work is important to cancer research, 
but while the letters summarize some of the Petitioner's published work, they do so in highly technical 
language that sheds little light on its major significance. Establishing that a particular article or research 
finding is useful is not the same as establishing its major significance in the field. 
But the Petitioner has not relied solely on such letters. Documentation that a person's published work 
has been highly cited relative to others' work in that field may be probative of the significance of the 
person's contributions to the field of endeavor. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at 
F.2(B)(l). Here, the Petitioner submitted a Google Scholar printout showing over 1,100 citations of his 
published work, with three articles cited more than 100 times each over a span of seven to fourteen years. 
The Petitioner also submitted statistics which appear to show that some of his most-cited articles are in 
the uppermost percentiles. There is some degree of ambiguity in the evidence, because the Petitioner 
used Clarivate Analytics percentiles for the category of "Clinical Medicine," but the submitted journal 
rankings from Google Scholar are in other categories, mostly "Life Sciences & Earth Sciences," that have 
higher baseline citation rates. The Petitioner did not establish that Clarivate Analytics considers his 
articles, or the journals that carried them, to be in the category of "Clinical Medicine." 
Nevertheless, on balance, the evidence cumulatively appears to be sufficient to meet the criterion's 
requirements, and we therefore withdraw the Director's contrary determination. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required evidence to meet three initial criteria, the next step is to 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. A final 
3 
merits determination involves analyzing an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality ofthe 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
In this proceeding, the Director did not undertake a final merits determination, and therefore there are 
no related conclusions for us to review. Therefore, we will remand the matter so that the Director can 
undertake in the first instance a final merits determination. Such a determination is based on the entire 
record. For example, an individual may at certain points be involved in highly significant research, 
but not attain the individual acclaim that would place the individual in the small percentage at the top 
of the field. 
Objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone does not establish that 
the person in fact meets the requirements for classification as a person with 
extraordinary ability. For example: 
• Participating in the judging of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization alone, regardless of the circumstances, should satisfy the regulatory 
criteria in the first step of the analysis. However, the second step requires the 
officer to evaluate the person's participation to determine whether it was indicative 
of the person being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim. 
• Publishing scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media alone, regardless of the caliber, should satisfy the regulatory criteria 
in the first step of the analysis. However, the second step requires the officer to 
evaluate the person's publications to determine whether they were indicative of the 
person being one ofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field 
of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The portion of the USCIS Policy Manual dealing with final merits determinations states that we should 
give some weight to publication ofa person's articles in "particularly highly-ranked journals," but another 
consideration is whether "the person is the most significant contributor to the published article, a senior 
author, or the sole author ofthe article." See id. at F.2(B)(2). Regarding citation totals, the USCIS Policy 
Manual states: 
The petitioner [may] provide[] evidence demonstrating that the total rate of citations to 
the person's body of published work is high relative to others in the field, such as the 
person has a high h-index for the field. Depending on the field and the comparative data 
the petitioner provides, such evidence may indicate a person's high overall standing for 
the purpose of demonstrating that the person is among the small percentage at the top of 
the field. 
4 
Id. The Petitioner submitted a Google Scholar printout showing an h-index of 17 at the time of filing, 
meaning that 17 of his articles had each been cited 17 or more times. The Director should consider 
whether the Petitioner submitted adequate evidence to establish that his h-index is high relative to others 
in the field. 
Letters of support should be corroborated by documentary evidence in the record. The letters should 
explain in specific terms why the witnesses believe a petitioner to be of the caliber of a person with 
extraordinary ability. Letters that merely make general and expansive statements regarding a 
petitioner and their accomplishments are generally not persuasive. See id. at F.2(B)(3). 
Regarding all these issues, the burden of proof remains on the Petitioner to adequately support his 
claims. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to 
any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
III. CONCLUSION 
By a preponderance of the evidence, the Petitioner has satisfied three initial evidentiary criteria. We 
will remand the matter to the Director for a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 25, 2024 In Re: 31672126 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification, the record did not establish that 
she had sustained national or international acclaim and was one of the small percentage at the top of 
her field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner has worked as an actor in theater, television and film in her native Armenia, and inc::=J 
was named an Honored Artist of the Republic of Armenia. She intends to continue working as an 
actor in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
published material about her and her work, her participation as a judge of the work of others, and the 
display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. But in his final merits determination, the 
Director determined that the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner had enjoyed sustained 
national or international acclaim and that she was one of the small percentage of actors at the top of 
the field. On appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence and asserts that she also meets additional 
evidentiary criteria. In addition, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not notify her of some of 
the deficiencies in the originally submitted evidence, and did not conduct the final merits analysis in 
accordance with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, per the analysis below we agree with the Director's conclusion that 
the record does not establish that the Petitioner has the required sustained national or international 
acclaim for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, or is one of the small percentage of 
actors at the top of the field. 
Because we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets the four evidentiary criteria 
noted above, and thus that she meets the initial evidence requirements for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability, we need not consider the Petitioner's claims to additional criteria 
made on appeal. We will rather consider the evidence submitted in support of all of the claimed 
criteria in reviewing the Director's final merits determination. 
As noted above, once an individual has established that they meet the initial evidence requirement, we 
conduct a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the 
2 
totality of the evidence to determine whether an individual has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of their field of endeavor, and that their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. As extraordinary 
ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a judgement call, it 
cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. The final merits 
determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as 
demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 
(2022). 
As an initial matter, we will not consider the new evidence offered by the Petitioner with her 
brief. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been 
given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the 
first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N 
Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In support of her submission of new evidence of published material about her, 
her activities as a judge of the work of other actors, and her performances, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Director went beyond the plain language of the corresponding evidentiary criteria when analyzing 
this evidence, and that she was therefore not provided with sufficient notice of the insufficiency of the 
evidence she initially submitted in the Director's request for evidence (RFE). But she makes these 
assertions in the context of the Director's final merits analysis, in which, as explained above, the 
overall requirement for the classification is applied, not that of the individual criteria. Thus the 
Director did not err in going beyond the plain language of the corresponding evidentiary criteria when 
conducting his final merits analysis, and we will not consider these assertions when evaluating the 
evidence below. Further, the Director's RFE provided a detailed analysis of the deficiencies in the 
initial evidence of published material about the Petitioner1, and reminded her (in bold type) that in 
addition to meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria, she must also establish that she possesses 
the high level of expertise required for the requested classification. 
In making that determination in his final merits analysis, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's 
receipt of two nationally recognized awards in her field: the I for Best Actress, from 
the in 2012, and the Honored Artist ofthe Republic of Armenia 
in However, he noted that the Petitioner received both awards several years before the filing of 
her petition, and that her eligibility for the classification must be shown at the time of filing. While 
the evidence of the Petitioner's awards cannot be evaluated apart from the totality of the record, we 
agree that it does not aid in demonstrating her continuing acclaim and standing as one of the small 
percentage at the top of her field at the time her petition was filed. 
The Petitioner asserts in her brief that the Honored Artist award is a lifetime achievement award, and 
thus that "time does not obscure the value and/or significance of this award." Although Chapter 5, 
Article 34 of the section of the Armenian statute concerning honorary titles states that it is given to 
artists for "for their high mastery" and "great merit in the development of art," neither the statute nor 
the profiles of other actor recipients (some of whom were relatively young actors) show that it is 
comparable to a lifetime achievement award honoring decades of contributions. 2 And while it 
1 The Director acknowledged in the RFE that the criteria relating to the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of 
others and the display of her work at artistic exhibitions had been met. 
2 Article 28 indicates that the honorary title of People's Artist of the Republic of Armenia, which is granted to artists "for 
3 
demonstrates a certain level of national recognition for the Petitioner's mastery and merit up until the 
time it was awarded, it cannot show continuing recognition beyond that point. 
Regarding the evidence of the Petitioner's many performances in theater, television, and film, the 
Director concluded that it demonstrated her steady work as a professional actress for three decades, 
but did not show that she stood out among her peers or was the leading actress or "main draw" of these 
performances. In responding to this conclusion on appeal, the Petitioner refers to mainly new 
evidence, which we will not consider on appeal, but also some of the previously submitted evidence. 
This previously submitted evidence shows that her roles in movies and recent television shows have 
been primarily supporting. For example, an article published on the website armlur.am on I ID 2015 discusses, in part, her role on the television sitcom I I but states only that she appeared 
on the show and played a cook. Other evidence in the record, includin a letter from fellow actor M­
P-, shows that she acted in movies including While 
the former was Armenia's submission to the 2001 Academy Awards for 
it was not selected as a nominee and was poorly reviewed in Variety, and in any case the Petitioner 
did not play a leading role. As for the latter film, M-P-lauds the Petitioner's performance in his letter 
and in three media articles about the film, but the record does not show that this film was either 
commercially successful or critically acclaimed. We note that the evidence does not demonstrate that 
the websites on which these articles were published are prestigious or well-known at the national or 
international level such that they evidence widespread acclaim for this role. 
The Petitioner has played leadin or starrin roles in several of the theater roductions in which she 
has participated for the ______________________ since 2004, as 
stated in the letter from the theater's director. She performed at least one of these plays, 0 as a solo 
performer in 2021, and this performance was singled out by the Director of the I I for 
praise in an article published on the website aravot.com on I I 2021. But the evidence of 
the reputation and distinction of the theater and its troupe of actors, which includes descriptions of its 
history and commendation/appreciation certificates from a community group and the county ofI I does not show that the theater is considered a prestigious or elite venue such that the 
Petitioner's performances there, leading or otherwise, place her amongst the small percentage at the 
top of the field. 
As already mentioned, the record includes several articles published in Armenian newspapers and 
websites that are interviews of her or otherwise discuss her and her work as an actor. In response to 
the Director's statement regarding the number of articles published about her during her lengthy 
career, the Petitioner asserts that the quality of the evidence, including the articles about her, should 
be a determining factor in the final merits determination. We first note that section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
the INA requires "extensive documentation" of the petitioner's acclaim and recognition. In addition, 
the quality of media articles as evidence of sustained acclaim and recognition as one of the small 
percentage at the top of the field is dependent upon the content of the articles and the prestige and 
reach of the medium. While the articles mainly focus on the Petitioner and her career, discussing 
previous roles she played and her future plans, many were published in media of limited reach, such 
as Pakagits Daily, Interlocutor ofArmenia, TV Mall Weekly, and TV Channel. While other media in 
their mastery ... for creating high art... and for significant contribution to the development of art," appears to be more 
analogous to a lifetime achievement award, although the index to this chapter also mentions "highest titles" and medals 
granted by the Republic of Armenia. 
4 
which articles about the Petitioner and her work as an actor were published have broader popularity, 
such as Tert.com, the totality of this evidence, when considering both quality and quantity, is not 
indicative of the widespread acclaim required for the requested classification. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director's conclusions re ation as a jur member 
in the 2020 and 2021 editions of the of 
Painting, Recitation and Theatrical Art held by the went beyond the plain 
language of the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As noted above, in his analysis as 
part of the final merits determination, the Director correctly considered whether the Petitioner's 
selection for this activity was based on her established and sustained acclaim, and whether her judging 
of the work of children resulted in further acclaim. While the Petitioner's willingness to lend her 
expertise to the development of young actors is laudable, we agree with the Director's conclusion that 
the record does not show that it appreciably contributed to her national or international acclaim and 
standing in her field. 
The Petitioner has enjoyed a lengthy career as an actor in her native country, and has at times in that 
career achieved a certain level of acclaim for her work at the national level. But the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner has enjoyed a level of commercial or critical recognition for her work as 
an actor that reflects that she is one of the small percentage at the top of her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the 
sustained acclaim and standing in her field required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that she is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17678947 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an audio engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova 
review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter to the Director for the entry 
of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to their occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed as North American Technical Sales Lead/Technical Director with I lat the time of filing and previously had ten years of progressive work experience with I I in Israel, where he was engaged in the development of professional audio products. 
He is also the co-founder o~ I where he serves as the product designer and owner of ~ product. Previously, he was employed as a product manager forl I 
L_____fand as a freelance sound engineer and audio technology consultant. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed to meet as many as six of these ten criteria, but 
determined that he satisfied only one criterion, related to his leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner has held critical roles withl I and I I and 
establishes that thd I organization has a distinguished reputation in the audio technology 
industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
his field and that he has displayed his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases, and therefore meets 
at least two additional criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (vii). He also maintains that he has 
a "record of significant commercial/critical success in his field," although he does not directly address 
2 
the Director's determination regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which relates to 
commercial success in the performing arts. The Petitioner further emphasizes that the Director should 
have considered "comparable evidence" of his achievements pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).1 
Here, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director's decision did not adequately 
address all the claimed evidentiary criteria and therefore did not adequately explain the reasons for 
denial of the petition. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the 
Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
A review of the Director's decision reflects that he did not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that he 
can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) and did not evaluate evidence submitted in support 
of this criterion. 2 As the Director did not make an initial determination as to whether the Petitioner 
has provided evidence of the display of his work in his field at artistic exhibitions or showcases, we 
will withdraw the decision and remand the matter to the Director for review and entry of a new decision 
that addresses this criterion. 
With regard to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director's decision "summarily dismisses" most of the evidence he submitted, only cursorily 
acknowledges one of several widely used products he has developed, and incorrectly states that all 
letters submitted in support of the petition are from "users" of a service developed by the Petitioner 
"who are not peers in the field." In support of his claim that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence related to various commercially and 
critically successful products he developed for three different companies and submitted letters from 
industry experts, product reviews and other media articles, and other evidence related to these products 
and their widespread use in the live music and recording industry. We agree with the Petitioner's 
assertion that the Director either mis characterized or failed to consider much of the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. As the Director only briefly referenced letters from "users" in his analysis 
of this criterion, he should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of 
those claims when evaluating this criterion in a new decision on remand. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. For the reasons discussed above, 
the Director shall issue a new decision that evaluates the evidence submitted in support of the criteria 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's dete1mination that he did not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii), and (iii), which relate to nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes, memberships in associations that 
require outstanding achievements, and published materials about him in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
2 The Petitioner explicitly claimed that he could satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) in a cover letter submitted 
in response to the Director's request for evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously dete1mined 
that he does not meet this criterion, but the Director did not address the display criterion at all in his October 16, 2020 
decision denying the petition. 
3 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (vii). The Director should also consider the Petitioner's claims that 
comparable evidence should be considered in this matter, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). If after 
review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 26, 2024 In Re: 32289656 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner graduated from the ______ of Music in 2012, and began releasing albums 
in 2013. Since 2017, the Petitioner has spent much of his time in the United States as an F-1 
nonimmigrant student, studying at the I land teaching at a music school inl I 
California in optional practical training permitted by his F-1 status. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the four criteria relating to prizes, memberships, published material, 
and judging. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding contributions, and 
therefore we consider him to have waived appeal on that issue. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the criteria 
claimed. We will discuss the criteria below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted photographs of performances and publicity events, web addresses for 
articles, and uncertified translations of several articles. 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2731201 1, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner submitted "documents ... that are 
not translated properly and/or do not come from legitimate media." The Director stated: 
Be advised that we do not view information disseminated through 21st Century Economic 
Report (2lshijijingjibaodao), admaimai.com, Baidu, Baike, China.com, ChinaDaily.com, 
Dianping, FengHuang (ifeng.com), NetEase (163.com), Sina, Sohu, Tencent (QQ.com), 
Toutiao, Xinhuanet, YouKu, and their like as published material, because they are web 
portals or distribution platforms open to the public through which anyone can self-publish 
information. Such evidence will not be considered or discussed. 
The Director also stated that, ifthe Petitioner chose to submit additional published materials, the Petitioner 
must establish the circulation of the media in which the materials appeared. 
In response, the Petitioner protested the Director's exclusion of material from the named websites. The 
Petitioner also submitted additional published material. The Petitioner did not submit the requested 
circulation information. 
In the denial notice, the Director repeated the assertion that evidence from certain websites would not be 
accepted. The Director also noted that some materials do not include the information required by the 
regulations, such as author attribution. The Director stated: "To qualify as major media, the publication 
should have significant national or international distribution with circulation ( online or in print) or 
viewership high compared with other statistics." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not justify the refusal to consider content from the 
listed websites. The Petitioner asserts that, while "some ofthe websites listed as excludable are small and 
maybe infamous websites that carry little probative value," others are "big national websites" which 
"carry probative value because ... it's impossible to buy spaces for personal promotion." 
In the case ofBaidu Baike, the submitted printouts include a disclaimer that reads: "Encyclopedia entries 
can be edited by everyone ... there is no official ... editor." There are no assurances about the reliability 
ofthe content from open, user-edited Internet sites. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910 (8th Cir. 
2008). But we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not adequately explain the conclusion that 
the other named websites are all open, user-edited websites. 
Nevertheless, the burden is on the Petitioner to establish that the submitted published material meets 
applicable requirements. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional 
and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
In this instance, the Petitioner submitted examples ofpublished material, but did not submit the necessary 
background information to establish that the published material appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, even after the Director specifically requested that information. 
3 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that some of the websites are "national website portals," but statements 
in a brief, motion, or Notice ofAppeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. 
Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). The Petitioner cannot meet his burden ofproof simply 
by asserting that the published material appeared in major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits new printouts showing that an album that he released in 2023 is 
available on online streaming services. A Spotify artist page indicates that he has "224 monthly listeners." 
Shoutout LA and CanvasRebel published interviews with the Petitioner in late 2023 and early 2024. All 
of these materials date from after the petition's August 2022 filing date, and therefore they cannot 
establish that the Petitioner met all eligibility requirements as of the filing date as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )( 1 ). As such, these newly submitted documents are not material to the appeal, and we need not 
consider whether these new submissions are published materials about the Petitioner that appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted circulation data for the publications, the Petitioner has not 
established that the published material appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media as the regulatory language requires. Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of certificates, some of them in English, others in Chinese with 
translations, and photographs of events and plaques. The Petitioner claimed to have received several 
more "regional, national and international awards" between 2008 and 2019. The Petitioner claimed that 
"many ofthese rankings are without an official award, certificate, etc." A printout from Baidu Baike lists 
several of the claimed awards. As noted above, Baidu Baike is a user-edited online encyclopedia that 
includes a disclaimer regarding the reliability ofthe information on the site. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for more information about the claimed awards, such as the criteria used 
to grant them and evidence of their national or international recognition. The Director advised that local 
media coverage is not sufficient to establish such recognition. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted printouts of identically worded articles from World Journal and 
Yahoo! News, indicating that the Petitioner placed fourth among five finalists in 
described as "the first summer singing competition that gathers music lovers from overseas Chinese 
students in the United States." 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish "the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field." Regarding the _____ 
competition, the Director stated that the Petitioner "submitted identical articles displayed on 
worldjournal.com and news.yahoo.com. However, as both sites are web portals, they have no probative 
value for this proceeding." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "Worldjournal is a reputable Chinese newspaper across North 
America available in all the major cities from Coast to Coast." The Petitioner also states that the Yahoo! 
4 
I News article was "not given sufficient weight." The Director is correct that the Yahoo! News article shares 
identical wording with the World Journal article. The record does not indicate that the Yahoo! News 
article was the result of independent reporting, rather than an aggregation that republished the World 
Journal article. 
As noted above, the Petitioner's statements in the appeal brief are not evidence. More importantly, the 
submitted articles do not establish that the Petitioner received a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award for finishing in fourth place in the I I competition. 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence that he received prizes and awards, but has not submitted the 
required evidence to establish their national or international recognition. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
met the requirements of the criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
A translated certificate indicated that the Petitioner was appointed as a standing council member of the 
IMusic and Literature Association from July 2016 to July 2021. An English-language printout 
from the user-edited online encyclopedia Baidu Baike called the association "a voluntary group of 
accomplished music literature workers inl I 
In the RFE, the Director stated that "being appointed to a council is not a membership in an association. 
Additionally, the appointment was expired at the time of filing." The Director requested "evidence of 
continued membership, information to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts in their disciplines or fields and the section 
of the association's constitution or bylaws that discusses the qualifications required by the review panel 
ofthe association." 
In response, the Petitioner stated that he allowed his council membership to lapse because "maintaining 
a membership in China would be impractical." The Petitioner asserted that he has applied to renew his 
membership "and is waiting for a certain card to arrive." The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he 
became a member of the Music Teachers Association of California in March 2023, several months after 
the petition's August 2022 filing date. The Petitioner did not submit evidence of the membership 
requirements of either association. 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not submitted the required evidence to 
show the associations require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. The Director also repeated the observation that the Petitioner's council 
appointment had lapsed, and the assertion that "being appointed to a council is not a membership in an 
association." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the expiration of his membership in the I IMusic and 
Literature Association is irrelevant to his eligibility, because it is his admission to the association that 
established his status in the field. But the Petitioner has not submitted the required evidence to show that 
5 
the association possesses the membership requirements that the regulations demand. As discussed above, 
the Baidu Baike article in the record lacks weight because any user can change the contents of such an 
article. Even then, the reference to association members as "accomplished" is not sufficient to show that 
the association requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. The Baidu Baike article instead limits the organization's scope tol I 
The Petitioner has not established that he holds any memberships that meet the regulatory requirements. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements for the criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), pertaining to judging the work of others, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve this issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has shown 
that he has released recordings, won prizes, and achieved some degree of media coverage, but he has 
not submitted the supporting evidence necessary to satisfy the regulatory criteria and establish that his 
recognition rises to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21166441 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 27, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hair stylist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets 
four criteria in addition to the two criteria that the Director concluded she met. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a hair stylist who opened her own studio in 2005. The evidence shows that she has 
received several awards in national stylist competitions, and has styled the hair of several celebrities 
in her nativel I She states that upon relocating to the United States she plans to open a new 
salon inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorfoundthatthePetitionermettwo of the evidentiarycriteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published materials about her and her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four 
additional criteria. Afterreviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she has met the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification by meeting three criteria, and will therefore remand the 
matter to the Director to conduct a final merits analysis. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several interviews and articles about her and her work as a stylist which were 
mainly published on the websites ofl lnews media. In addition, the record includes evidence 
which demonstrates that some of those websites are comparatively highly visited to the extent that 
they may be considered to be major media. We therefore agree with the Director that this criterion 
has been met. 
2 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record shows that the Petitioner served as a judge for the _____ Championship in 
Hairdressing, Decorative Cosmetics and Nail Art in 2009. As such, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that this evidence establishes that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that their work in the field was displayed at an 
exhibition or showcase, and that the exhibition or showcase was artistic in nature. The Director noted 
three general categories of evidence submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion: photos 
from fashion shows, credits from video productions, and articles about competitions. While he did 
not dispute that the Petitioner's work was displayed in music videos, fashion shows, and beauty 
competitions, he concluded that the evidence did not establish that any of these were artistic 
exhibitions or showcases versus events conducted for marketing or competitive purposes. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on several competitions and fashion shows in which hairstyles she 
created were displayed, and refers to previously submitted evidence which include photographs taken 
at two competitions in which she competed in 2006 and 2009. Those photographs show that as part 
of the competitions, models displayed the hairstyles, makeup and fingernails created by the stylist 
competitors in a runway show attended by spectators. While the overall exhibitions within which the 
competitions take place have a commercial component, the evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
competitions were primarily exhibitions of the artistic skills of the competing stylists. Accordingly, 
we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion and conclude that the evidence shows that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets at least one criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) in 
addition to the two which the Director determined that she met, she has met the initial evidence 
requirement for the requested classification. We therefore need not consider whether she also meets 
additional criteria. Rather, the totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the 
Director in his decision or herein, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether 
it shows that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in the field of hair sty ling 
and is one of the small percentage of stylists at the top of that field. As the Director's decision did not 
include a final merits determination, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the 
record and determine whether the Petitioner has established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
3 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn and the matter remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WLY 27, 2023 In Re: 22669626 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the sciences. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence ofa one­
time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 1 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Beneficiary 
met the criteria relating to judging and authorship of scholarly articles, but determined that she did not 
satisfy the awards, membership, published material, and original contributions criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets the membership, published material, and original 
contributions criteria. 3 After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's position with the Petitioner as a radiation oncology 
physician meets this criterion. The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that its employment 
relationship with the Beneficiary constitutes "membership" in an association or that her position 
required outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. 
The Petitioner also provided an email stating that the Beneficiary was "invited" to become a member 
of the International Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group, but the record does not indicate that she 
had actually been admitted to membership in this organization at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). Regardless, the evidence presented does not establish that the International 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally id. (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers should evaluate all the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine ifa petitioner has established, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, 
the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Petitioner does not claim to meet the awards criterion on appeal. 
2 
Lymphoma Radiation Oncology Group requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
In addition the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's membership in the._____...-__---,., 
------~1=·n~t"'"""ihe United Kingdom (UK), the Pediatric Radiation Oncology Society, the.L..;-----; 
1-----.-----------' Group, the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation Oncology, the.__ _ __. 
._______.Medical Society, and thel lmeet this criterion. While the 
Petitioner provided general information about these organizations, it did not submit their constitution 
or bylaws, or other documentation showing their official membership requirements. In addition to not 
demonstrating that the aforementioned organizations require outstanding achievements of their 
members, the submitted documentation does not show that their admission to membership is judged 
by recognized national or international experts. 
For example, regarding the Beneficiary's membership in theO the Petitioner submitted only pages 
from Wikipedia about the organization. As there are no assurances about the reliability of the content 
from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia will be accorded no evidentiary 
weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukase~, 540I F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 4 In addition, even 
ifwe were to consider this evidence, it indicates tha membershi is conferred u on "doctors who 
have passed the examinations for the diploma of membership of the of 
the United Kingdom, which are held jointly by all of the UK,_____~--~--____. The 
Petitioner has not shown that passing the requiredc=] medical examinations rises to the level of 
"outstanding achievements," or that the Beneficiary's admission was judged by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary's "fellowship" in the~meets this criterion. The 
Petitioner resented a certificate stating that the Beneficiary was "admitted a Fellow of the I I 
The Petitioner, however, has not offered evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary's.__ _ _.fellowship required outstanding achievements or that her admission was judged 
by recognized national or international experts. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiar 's two-week fellowshi with the I,___ ____. 
University r------------'-'-""-.>..!=........,,._._-~ _________ _JFellowship to 
the UniversityL _________ -r---,_____J, and "Two-Year Fellowship Program in 
Pediatric and Adult Proton Therapy" at.__ _ ___,satisfy this criterion. These fellowships represent 
temporary medical training opportunities rather than membership in associations in the field. For 
4 See also information from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer, accessed on July 24, 2023, and 
copy incorporated into the record ofproceeding, which indicates that Wikipedia's content is subject to the following general 
disclaimer: 
WTKTPEDTA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information .... 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
3 
instance, the Petitioner provided information about th ._____________ ____,Fellowship" 
which states: 'The goal ofthe program is to develop clinical expertise in the management of pediatric 
malignancies and technical expertise in the application ofproton therapy. Fellows will be expected to 
complete a proton therapy related research project ...." Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary's fellowships required outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. For example, regarding her._____________ ____, 
Fellows~ip, the retitioner submitted information indicating that "fellowships are open to consultants 
and post Specialist Registrar Clinical Oncologists who are members or fellows of the Din 
good standing, resident in the United Kingdom, and in active clinical practice at the time of the 
award/visit." Additionally, with respect to the Beneficiary's "Two-Year Fellowship Program in 
Pediatric and Adult Proton Therapy," the Petitioner provided information from University I I 
stating: 
The pre-requisite for the fellowship is successful completion of an ACGME accredited 
residency in Radiation Oncology by the start date ofthe fellowship .... The application 
must include a current Curriculum Vitae and a one page personal statement articulating 
the candidate's interest in the fellowship. Three letters of recommendation from 
clinical and/or research mentors are also required, including one from the fellow's 
residency director. Exceptional international applicants who have completed a 
radiation oncology residency in the United Kingdom, Norway, Australia, Singapore, 
and Canada will be considered provided they have a valid U.S. medical license, or 
ECFMG certification for training outside the U.S. (requires completion of USMLE 1 
and USMLE 2 exams). ECFMG certification is also required for visa sponsorship, if 
applicable. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the aforementioned criteria (such as completing an oncology 
residency, active clinical practice, or medical licensure) rise to the level of "outstanding" 
achievements. Without evidence indicating that the Beneficiary's memberships require outstanding 
achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or international 
experts, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted scholarly research articles and reviews written 
or edited by the Beneficiary in International Neurology, Radiology and Radiotherapy of 
Craniopharyngioma, and BMJ Clinical Review. 5 The Petitioner also resented an article authored b 
the Beneficiary, entitled L-------1---------,_ __-,,--__________ __J 
which was posted on the website of._________ ___.News. 6 The aforementioned medical 
articles discuss subject matter other than the Beneficiary. As this material is not "about" the 
5 The regulations contain a separate and distinct criterion relating to "authorship of scholarly articles" in professional 
publications at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), a criterion that the Beneficiary has akeady satisfi,....ed_.______ __, 
6 The Petitioner has not presented evidence (such as readership statistics) showing that.__ ______ ___.News' 
website is a form of major media. 
4 
Beneficiary, it does not constitute published material about her for purposes of this criterion. The 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "published material about the alien." 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article about the Beneficia m agazine, entitled 
" The author of this article is L...----------------------------~not identified as required by this criterion and the material appears in the "Advertising Feature" section 
of the magazine. Marketing materials created for promoting one's services are generally not 
considered sufficient to meet this criterion. 7 Nor did the Petitioner offer comparative circulation 
statistics or other evidence to demonstrate thatl !Magazine is a professional or major trade 
publication or other type of major media. 8 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that the Beneficiary discussed "Breast 
Cancer Treatment Options" on the.__________ _.News Morning Show's health segment. 
The Petitioner has not shown that this televised segment was about the Beneficiary as opposed to 
breast cancer treatment options available to Florida women. In addition, the Petitioner has not 
presented evidence (such as viewership statistics) showing that the I INews 
Morning Show is a form of major media. Without evidence that the Beneficiary has been the subject of 
material about her in professional or major trade publications or major media, the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted the Beneficiary's research articles and book 
chapters, citation evidence for her published work, and letters of support from her colleagues in the 
field. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For 
the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has a beneficiary made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 9 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence" (stating that marketing materials created for the purpose of selling a beneficiary's products or 
promoting their services are not generally considered to be published material about the beneficiary). 
8 See generally id. (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other 
major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics). 
9 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence." 
5 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's "formal training and education in proton 
beam therapy atl I' "real-life experience in both adult and pediatric proton therapy," completion 
of "a dedicated pediatric and adult proton therapy fellowship," and treatment of "more than 200 
children suffering from cancer" meet this criterion. While the evidence indicates that the Beneficiary 
is skilled in her field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her education, training, and experience 
in proton therapy constitute original scientific contributions of major significance in the field of 
radiation oncology. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary reviewed material for Oncology at a Glance 
and "has edited at least ten British Medical Journal (BMJ) Clinical Review books from 2015 to 2019 
on subjects ranging from clinical oncology, hematology, pediatrics, and obstetrics and gynecology." 
The Beneficiary's manuscript reviews and editorial service, however, were considered under the 
judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), a criterion that she has already fulfilled. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish how performing peer review or editorial work for a journal rises to the 
level of an original contribution of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show, 
for example, how the Beneficiary's work significantly impacted or influenced the field in a major way 
beyond Oncology at a Glance or the BMJ. 
The Petitioner also indicates that the Beneficiary has published articles and conference abstracts in 
International Neurology; International Journal ofParticle Therapy; Drugs; International Journal of 
Radiation Oncology, Biology, Physics (IJROBP); Clinical Oncology; Basic Research and Clinical 
Aspects ofAdamantinomatous Craniopharyngioma; Lung Cancer; and European Journal of Cancer 
Supplements. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication of articles in well ranked journals 
and presentation of work at reputable medical conferences, such as Proceedings of the American 
Society/or Radiation Oncology 56th Annual Meeting (ASTRO), inevitably demonstrate that the field 
considers the research and work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on the field or that every article published 
in a distinguished journal or conference automatically indicates a scientific contribution of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in the aforementioned 
journals and conferences alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the Beneficiary's 
field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence 
that they were of"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The record includes the Beneficiary's Google Scholar profile showing that her research articles have 
received 73 cumulative citations. The information from Goo le Scholar further indicated that the 
Beneficiary's two hi hest cited articles, entitled' 
2007 and' 
(2015), each received 69 and 3 citations, 
~r-es_p_e_c-ti-v-el_y_. _H_e_r-n-ex_t_t_w_o_h-ig_h_e_s_t -c1-.te-d-art-ic-1-es-,-e-n-ti~tled '~-----~' (2016) and 1 I 
~I--------------~I (2017) received one citation each. 10 ._____ ____. 
10 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations for each of these individual articles were self-citations by the 
Beneficiary or her coauthors. 
6 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a beneficiary's 
research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the number of 
citations for any of the Beneficiary's published articles is commensurate with contributions of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the 
citations to the Beneficiary's articles. Nor has the Petitioner shown that these citations are unusually 
high in the Beneficiary's field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having 
been majorly significant. Without comparative statistical evidence indicating the frequency at which 
other articles in the Beneficiary's field are cited, for example, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
the number of citations received by her published and presented work is indicative of a contribution 
of major significance in the field. 
Additionally, the Petitioner points to recommendation letters from experts in the field provided in 
support of the Beneficiary. 11 These references discussed the Beneficiary's advanced radiation 
oncology training, as well her research relating to oncology and proton therapy, but their statements 
do not demonstrate that her original work is of major significance in the field. As discussed below, 
the reference letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that the 
Beneficiary has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, Dr. M-W-W-, a professor of radiation oncology at T-J-U-, stated that the Beneficiary 
"pursued specialized training in proton therapy beyond the basic requirement ofresidency training and 
has developed a rare clinical skill in a highly specialized field of proton therapy." Dr. M-W-W-
indicated that the Beneficiary completed a fellowship in pediatric and adult proton therapy at I I 
"inI I the first such program in the world." Dr. M-W-W-also noted that the Beneficiary 
has "authored original scientific research studies" published in International Journal of Particle 
Therapy" and presented at ASTRO, but she did not explain how this work has affected the field in a 
substantial way or otherwise constitutes a contribution ofmajor significance in the field. We recognize 
that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in some way in order to be accepted for 
publication, presentation, fonding, or academic credit, but not every research study that broadens 
knowledge in a particular field constitutes a contribution of major significance in that field. 
Dr. M-W-W- farther mentioned the Beneficiar 's editorial work for BMJ Clinical Review and 
authorship of a book chapter inI I The Petitioner._,_h_o_w_e_v_e_r_, h_a_s_n-ot-of_Ii_e-re-d-c1-. ta-t-io-n-in_fi_o_rm_a-t1-. o_n_o_r_o_t_h_e_r_e_v-id_e_n_c_e__, 
showing that the Beneficiary's particular book chapter constitutes an original contribution of major 
significance in proton therapy. Nor does the evidence support a determination that performing 
editorial services for BMJ Clinical Review rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in 
the field. 
In addition, Dr. S-A-, the Petitioner's medical director, stated that the Beneficiary's "research has 
helped ... refine and define the radiation tolerance of critical hearing organs such as the cochlea. The 
guidance derived from this data is critical in hearing preservation in the long-term survivors of 
childhood cancer patients helping improve their survivorship and quality of life." He indicated that 
the Beneficiary "was invited to present this work as a podium presentation at the International Pediatric 
11 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Radiation Oncology Cancer Society Conference at ~---------_.Hospital ... in D 
2017." Dr. S-A-further noted that the Beneficiary's "presentation generated the expected enthusiasm 
and has established [the Beneficiary] as an outstanding researcher," but he did not offer specific 
examples indicating that her presented findings on radiation tolerance have influenced the field of 
radiation oncology to the extent that they are of major significance in her field. 
Furthermore, Dr. B-H-, a consultant clinical oncologist at C-C-C-, asserted that the Beneficiary has 
"authored several impactful research publications and oral presentations international conferences." 
While Dr. B-H-listed examples of the Beneficiary's published and presented work, he did not 
elaborate on how her specific research and findings have been widely utilized by other radiation 
oncologists or have otherwise affected proton cancer therapies at a level indicative of contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from Drs. R-L-R-, W-P-, and N-J-. Although 
these remaining letters praise the Beneficiary's work as a radiation oncologist, they do not demonstrate 
how her contributions are "of major significance in the field." Instead, the letters reference the 
importance of the Beneficiary's works as indicated by their publication in professional journals and 
presentation at medical conferences. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through the 
Beneficiary's citation history or other evidence that her work, once published or presented, has been 
of major significance in the field. While the selection of the Beneficiary's articles in professional 
journals and conferences verifies the originality of her work, it does not necessarily reflect that her 
research and findings are considered of major significance. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Beneficiary's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add 
value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. 13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient information and evidence 
demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. 14 Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
12 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendices, "Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of 
Reviewing Evidence." 
13 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
8 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary 
has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. 
Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary has garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9450423 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a human rights lawyer and legal researcher, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The Director also found that the Petitioner had not 
established that she intends to continue her work in the United States, or that her entry will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has served on the faculties of various universities in Venezuela, most recently I 
I IUniversitv, where she is a professor and researcher at the I O I and 
coordinator of the[ I Since 2014, she has been executive director of the 
.__ ____________ ____,.., a human rights organization that she founded in Venezuela. She 
is also the chief executive officer of the I I a New Jersey-based nonprofit 
organization that she co-founded in 2018. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met eight criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
2 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the three criteria numbered (iv), (vi), and (viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other five claimed evidentiary criteria. Because we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three criteria, we need not discuss them in 
detail here. We will, however, note that the evidence presented in support of the various criteria is not 
of uniform strength. For instance, when discussing the seventh criterion, the Petitioner has contended 
that her reports and presentations are "displayed" to the public, but when quoting the regulation, the 
Petitioner has consistently omitted the word "artistic," which is integral and essential, rather than 
incidental, to the regulation cited. Notwithstanding such issues, a petitioner need not satisfy every 
criterion claimed to reach a final merits determination, so long as they satisfy at least three of them. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has established her 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
The record as a whole supports a finding of eligibility. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. Foremost 
in this respect is her leadership oti I The record establishes that I I has been involved in 
several national-level civil rights initiatives, and the Petitioner's leadership of that organization has 
led to frequent consultations at national and international levels, with organizations such as 
Venezuela's (which designated her a permanent advisor to thel I 
.__------------~~- and various committees of the United Nations. Other nations 
have taken notice of her work as well, as shown by a commissioned report for thel Ito 
Venezuela. 
The Petitioner has established not only a dedicated and productive career, but one that has attracted 
high-level attention in academia, government, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), while 
earning the respect and accolades of other activists in her field. 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that adjudicators should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
C. Continued Work in the Field and Substantial Prospective Benefit to the United States 
On the petition form, asked for a very short description of her occupation, the Petitioner described 
herself as a human rights researcher. In a request for evidence, the Director stated that the Petitioner 
is "running an NGO" and "working as an attorney instead of as a Human Rights Researcher." In the 
denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not addressed these points, and therefore 
it was not evident that the Petitioner seeks to continue working as a human rights researcher. 
The Director's conclusion appears to rest on a misunderstanding of the Petitioner's research work. 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner conducts research in furtherance of her broader activities 
as an attorney and activist, pursuing actions both within and beyond the government to address matters 
of concern in human rights (emphasizing, but not limited to, women's rights). The benefit arising 
from her work does not derive directly from the research element of that work, but from increased 
awareness of human rights violations and political pressure to remedy them. The grounds raised in 
the request for evidence, and indirectly referenced in the denial notice, do not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner will not continue to work to advance human rights or that the United States will not 
benefit from the presence of a dedicated human rights activist. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim in her field and submitted 
extensive documentation of her achievements. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that she intends to 
continue working in the United States in his area of expertise and that her entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9474140 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sports journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. We will dismiss the motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision. 
IT. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a broadcast journalist who is currently employed b ~----------~ '-------~ Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At various times in these proceedings, the Petitioner claims to have met 
six criteria, summarized below: 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
In the denial notice, the Director did not address the Petitioner's claims regarding the criterion numbered 
(vii), pertaining to artistic exhibitions or showcases; the Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the other five claimed criteria. In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner had 
satisfied criterion number (vii), but agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had not satisfied the other 
five. On motion, the Petitioner maintains that he has satisfied the criteria numbered (i), (iii), (iv), and (v). 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's motion includes copies of several documents, nearly all of which the Petitioner had 
submitted earlier. Re-submitted materials do not introduce new facts into the record, and therefore they 
do not provide a basis for reopening the proceeding. The onlG document that does not appear to have 
been submitted previously is a 2018 Media Kit forl Brazilian Ne1Vs, a Portuguese-language 
publication for Brazilian expatriates in the United States. The Petitioner's accompanying brief does not 
mention this particular document or explain its relevance to the motion. 
The Petitioner had previously claimed coverage inl las an example of published material about him 
in professional or major trade publications or 0. thlr major media, to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In [ 12015, a article described the Petitioner as "without a 
doubt, one of the greatest reporters in Brazilian TV." The record shows that the Petitioner was previously 
a reporter forl I 
In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner had not provided a basis for comparison to 
show that I Is website constitutes major media. The media kit indicates that the website attracts 
more than 400,000 users per month, but does not provide a basis for comparison with other United States­
based news sites. 
The Petitioner has not shown cause for reopening the proceeding by establishing that the information in 
thd lmedia kit would have changed the outcome of the appellate decision. The media kit introduces 
no relevant new facts into the record, and therefore the Petitioner's filing does not meet the requirements 
of a motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In our appellate decision, we discussed the six evidentiary criteria that the Petitioner claims to have 
satisfied, and we explained why we determined that the Petitioner had met only one of those criteria. On 
motion, the Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of the six criteria (including the one we already 
granted), but does not address the specific points we raised in our decision. Instead, portions of the motion 
brief repeat, almost verbatim, sections of the earlier appellate brief 
3 
A motion does not entail de nova review of the full record of proceeding. The Petitioner cannot establish 
grounds for reconsideration by repeating or rewording prior arguments and assertions. To warrant 
reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish errors of law or policy (as documented by precedent 
decisions or other cited policy instruments), or errors of fact ( through a showing the decision was incorrect 
based on the record as it stood at the time of the prior decision). It cannot suffice for the Petitioner simply 
to state reasons why he believes his petition should be approved. We conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established grounds for reconsideration of our appellate decision. 
The motion to reconsider focuses on four of the evidentiary criteria, which we address below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner had previously submitted evidence regarding several awards, and claimed other awards. 
The Director devoted more than a page of the original denial notice to a discussion of why the various 
awards did not meet the regulatory requirements, and determined that the Petitioner had not submitted 
supporting evidence regarding some of the claimed awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner stated that he "has received many awards," but there were only two that he 
identified and discussed in any detail in the appellate brief: a Brazilian Tnternatiorl Press A ward 
(BIPA) and an award from the c=J.Association of Sports Writers of the State of ] We 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish that these awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field of journalism." 
On motion, the Petitioner states that the BIP A "is one of the most important celebrations of Brazilian 
culture internationally," including "entries from Europe ... and Asia." In our appellate decision, we 
acknowledged international participation, but dete1mined that this does not establish the recognition 
of the award. The Petitioner does not explain how this conclusion was in error. 
Also on motion, the Petitioner lists other awards he received, or claims to have received. The Director 
addressed these other awards in the denial notice, but the Petitioner offered no specific defense of 
those awards on appeal. By not contesting the Director's conclusions on appeal, the Petitioner 
effectively abandoned those claims. 1 
With respect to certain claimed awards, such as the.__ _______ .....,Film Festival, the Director 
stated that the Petitioner submitted "no documentary evidence of these awards." The Petitioner did 
not dispute this particular finding on appeal. On motion, the Petitioner revisits this abandoned claim, 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). Sec also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *L *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). See also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 n.6 (11th Cir. 
1989) (stating that passing references to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed 
abandoned). 
4 
but rather than identify any evidence that he won an award at the festival, he asserts that the festival 
"is the premier event of its kind in North America," and that he "was recognized as having a significant 
impact and participation in [a prize-]winning documentary." Involvement in an award-winning film 
is not the same as receipt of a prize or award, which is what the regulation requires. 
The Petitioner has not established that we e1red in our appellate decision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classffication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of published material about 
him, but we dete1mined that evidence to be deficient for various reasons: 
• An article about him on the website ofl I as submitted, did not include the title and author 
required by the regulation. As noted above, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish 
thad Is website constitutes major media. 
• A second onlinel I article was written by, rather than about, the Petitioner. 
• A 2018 podcast is deficient for several reasons: it occun-ed after the filing date; the partial 
transcript in the record did not clarify whether the podcast was about the Petitioner, as required, 
or instead the Petitioner participated in the podcast by providing commentary on a tennis 
match; and the Petitioner did not establish that the podcast constitutes major media. 
• Photographs of the Petitioner on celebritypictures.wiki, presented without comment, are not 
published materials about him, and the Petitioner did not establish that the website constitutes 
major media. 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats language from the earlier appellate brief, which does not establish 
en-or in the appellate decision that already addressed that brief. The Petitioner also quotes some of the 
materials submitted previously, but because our appellate decision did not dispute the content of the 
materials, quoting them does not establish en-or in that appellate decision. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for 1vhich classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim to have been "the moderator for 
the~-----------~Intemational Press Awards andLJBrazil debates," but the 
5 
Director determined that the Petitioner submitted "no documentaiy evidence" to support these claims, 
and had not shown that the claimed work as a moderator entailed judging the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner abandoned this claim, discussing instead his claim to have acted as "a judge 
for the 1994 I I Award."' We determined that the Petitioner had not established this 
judging activity was in the same or an allied field for which the Petitioner seeks classification. 
On motion, the Petitioner does not dispute our conclusion in the appellate decision. Instead, the 
Petitioner returns to th~ !events that he abandoned on appeal. The Petitioner provides no new 
information about these events, and no basis for concluding that our prior decision was in error. 
Evidence of the a lien's original scienttfic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In the denial decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of letters from various 
athletes and journalists, attesting to the Petitioner's skills as a sports journalist. The Director 
concluded that the letters did not establish that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major 
significance to the field of journalism. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted: "His contributions can be seen in his aiiistic style of reporting in 
most international sports events such as the.__~~--------.....," but did not elaborate. The 
Petitioner also highlighted his involvement in two short documentary films: ,__ _____ _.and 
I ~ 
In our appellate decision, we discussed the two documentary films and determined that the Petitioner 
had not shown them to be of major significance. 
On motion, the Petitioner again quotes from letters in the record, in which various individuals attest 
in general terms that the Petitioner is a talented and respected member of his field. As the Director 
already noted in the denial notice, general praise of this type does not identify specific contributions 
or show how they are of major significance in the Petitioner's field. 
The Petitioner does not address or rebut the specific conclusions in our appellate decision, and 
therefore, he has not shown that we erred in that decision. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20755433 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY Y 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director indicated that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, we agree with the Petitioner that his membership with thel !Olympic team that 
competed in Beijing in 2008 is sufficient to satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 Accordingly, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that he has satisfied at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria. We will therefore review the totality of the evidence in the context 
of the final merits determination below.2 
1 An individual's membership on an Olympic team will not necessarily or automatically satisfy the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Here, however, the Petitioner demonstrated that his membership on I 2008 01 m ic 
team re uired hi to attain outstanding achievements as determined and judged by experts at the 
and the . A letter from head coach of 
the ____ that qualifiers for the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics were selected based 
on their competition results at the 2007 World I Championships inl I 
2 Meeting the minimum requirement of providing required initial evidence does not, in itself, establish that the person in 
fact meets the requirements for extraordinary ability classification. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 3 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was working as al I coach for I I inL I California. 5 The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting successes in 
national and international amateur! !competitions, such as four first place victories at the 
Championships (2007, 2009, 2010, and 2013).6 In addition, he 
documented his membership with the 2008 I Olympic team. Moreover, the Petitioner 
provided evidence showing media coverage of his amateu accomplishments from 2006 until 
March 2017. The record, however, falls short of showing that his achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his amateur 
achievements and coaching work have garnered him sustained national or international acclaim and 
that they reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723 at 59. In this case, the Petitioner has not established that he has received any amateur or 
professional awards since winning a silver medal at the I I Cup 2017"1 I 
tournament in Germany in 201 7. Further, despite the Petitioner having signed a 
professional agreement in California in 2019, he has not shown that he has competed against 
top since that time, let alone won any medals or awards, reflecting that he "is one of 
that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."7 See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A) (stating that "such acclaim must be maintained" and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
4 In the second step of the analysis, the officer should evaluate the evidence together and consider the petition in its entirety 
to make a final merits determination of whether or not the petitioner has demonstrated that the person has sustained national 
or international acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the 
person is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. The officer applies a 
preponderance of the evidence standard when making this determination. See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B). 
5 Part 3 of the Form T-140 indicates that the Petitioner's "Date of Last Arrival" in the United States was Julv 17 2019. 
6 Additionally, the Petitioner presented documentation indicating that he placed first at the 20081 
Championships in En land, an amateur! I event hosted by the 
and third at the 2010 Championships in Russia. He also placed first at the International 
Tournament (2010), first at the "World Cu of 1(2005), third at the I ]Championship, and third at the Championship (2003). 
7 While this 2019 contract grants the promoter "the exclusive right to promote future as a professional 
' there is no indication that the Petitioner has continued to compete successfully against renowned or accomplished 
after coming to the United States. 
3 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of"extraordinary ability." 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner demonstrated a 
successful amateur career in until around 201 7, he has not shown that he has 
maintained his acclaim as a _ since that time by winning awards at nationally or internationally 
recognized competitions, demonstrating "sustained" national or international acclaim and 
achievements that have been recognized in the field. 8 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, although the Petitioner indicated that he intended "to continue 
working as a professional! I and coach in the United States, he has not shown that he has 
maintained his acclaim in his sport by successfully competing or coaching at top amateur or 
professional! I events after his arrival in this country in July 2019. Nor has the Petitioner shown 
that he has received any awards as a lcoach inl lor United States. 
Again, the Petitioner demonstrated that he was a member ofthel I Olympic team for the 2008 
Olympic Games in Beijing. However, the Petitioner did not show that this single team membership 
more than a decade ago resulted in "sustained" national or international acclaim. Furthermore, he did 
not establish that he qualified for the 2012, 2016, or 2020 Olympic Games, reflecting continued, 
sustained national or international acclaim in his sport. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. 204.5 h 3 . Moreover, while the record includes a letter from the president of the 
stating that the P.....,e Petitioner has been a member of both thel I 
and the ___________ Team since 2006, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has competed as member of these organizations after 2017. Nor has the Petitioner 
demonstrated his membership in any coaching associations that require outstanding achievements or 
that otherwise demonstrate his national or international acclaim as a coach. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he has maintained or sustained his national or international acclaim as al lor a 
coach. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material about him, the Petitioner offered articles from 
I I l 11 11 and dated 
2008 until March 2017. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate any media coverage about him 
relating to his work as al I or coach after March 201 7. The absence of such media 
coverage since that time is not consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary 
for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his overall press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting reflects a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard . . . to present more extensive 
documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility as an 
8 The record includes a letter of support from _____ a professional discussing his familiarity with 
events in the Petitioner's amateur career from 2005 until 2010, but his letter does not mention the Petitioner's 
activity as I in the decade after that period. While the Petitioner presented ratings from I for listing his current professional ranking among O the record 
does not include any similar ranking information for the Petitioner identifying him as a top amateur or professionac==J 
over the last several years. 
4 
individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the 
evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner asserts that he erformed in a leadin or critical role for the I 
I I and the in __ 
Regarding his role for these two organizations as an amateur the Petitioner has not shown that 
he has competed on their behalf since March 2017. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
has maintained or sustained his national or international acclaim by continuing to perform in a leading 
or critical role as a for the aforementioned organizations after March 2017. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
With respect to the Petitioner's work as al I coach at l the Petitioner provided a letter from I lthe organization's first deputy, stating that the Petitioner coached there "from 2016 -
2019." I I indicated that the Petitioner "coached and mentored both teenager and adult 
champions and awardees of the _______ further stated: 
The roof of this is who became the champion of 
of the in 2017 and 2018 won the silver medal of 
of the in 2019 and I 
who won the silver medal at _________ of the I 
in 2018 and the silver medal at International Championship held in l Russia 
in 2018. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that he served as the aforementioned I primary 
coach or that their competitive success was mainly attributable to him. Nor has the Petitioner shown that 
his role as a coach fo was leading or critical. For example, while the Petitioner was involved 
in training these tw the evidence does not show that the Petitioner's coaching role contributed 
in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of I I activities. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that his role as a coach at lwas reflective of, or resulted in, 
widespread acclaim from his field or that his level of coaching expertise placed him at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Besides reference letters and some competitive 
results for ______ and ______ the Petitioner did not offer evidence 
establishing that he garnered extensive acclaim or recognition from the field for his coaching role. In 
addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has served in a leading or critical coaching role 
for a distinguished organization since his July 2019 arrival in the United States, or that he has otherwise 
sustained acclaim in the field of coaching at the national or international level since that time. 9 The 
Petitioner has not established that any of his past or present coaching roles are indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner enjoyed success as 
9 For example, the Petitioner has not shown that he has coached top amateur or professionall I at 
(his current U.S. employer) in a way that is indicative of a leading or critical role for the company. 
5 
an amateur0from 2003 until March 2017, he has not demonstrated that he has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim as an amateur or professional! after that period in either I I 
or the United States. Nor does the evidence show that the Petitioner's coaching achievements have 
been recognized in the field or that he has sustained national acclaim as a coach inl lor the 
United States. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Price, 20 r&N Dec. at 954 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.e. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.e. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
( stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one 
of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude users from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form r-140 immigrant petitions are denied after users approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.e. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.e. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the users service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
10 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21035380 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al I instruction school, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a chief _ 
instructor and president, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Beneficiary 's Field of Expertise 
In Part 6 of the petition, the Petitioner listed the Beneficiary 's job title for the proposed employment 
as president , chief I I instructor. In addition, the petitioner indicated the beneficiary 's job 
description as chief I I instructor, safety coordinator ,I I lesson designer, and marketing 
supervisor. In the supporting cover letter, Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary "intends to continue 
using his skills as al Ito instruct newl I that aspire to becomel I 
themselves." On appeal, the Petitioner argues: 
[T]he Service ... failed to understand how Beneficiary's career as a is 
related to his position as President [for the Petitioner]. ... [The Petitioner's] ability to 
offer the curriculum is dependent upon having Beneficiary's design, manage and teach 
the programs . The President , Chief Instructor is a position that must be 
occupied by a person with experience during at the highest levels, here [the 
Beneficiary] had reached the pinnacle of I and now incorporates 
these talents. Therefore , Beneficiary's career as al I is essential to prove that he is 
part of a small percentage ofl !nationals that have reached the pinnacle of 
I I 
Beneficiary has competed as a in many championships around the world. 
It is the experience gained throughout his career as a that established the 
foundation to become an extraordinary instructor .... 
. . . It is argued that the Service failed again to recognize how Beneficiary's I 40 plusl 
year career as al I is related to his position as President, Chief 
Instructor. Beneficiary's position exists as a continuation of his career in 
from to the pinnacle, I I Beneficiary 's 
extraordinary ability as lis not only commendable to his but a 
necessary legacy to be offered employment as President [for the Petitioner) .... 
2 
As indicated above, the Beneficiary intends to work in the United States as president of a __ I I instruction school and chiefl I instructor. The Beneficiary does not intend to 
compete I I The statute and regulations require a beneficiary's national or international 
acclaim to be sustained and that he or she seeks to continue work in the area of expertise in the United 
States. See sections 203(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1153(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii), and 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3) and (5). While a I I instructor and a I I share 
knowledge of the sport, the two rely on very different sets of basic skills. Thus, I I 
instructionl !management and competitive are not the same area of expertise. This 
interpretation has been upheld in federal court. In Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002), 
the court stated: 
It is reasonable to interpret continuing to work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" 
as working in the same profession in which one has extraordinary ability, not 
necessarily in any profession in that field. For example, Lee's extraordinary ability as 
a baseball player does not imply that he also has extraordinary ability in all positions 
or professions in the baseball industry such as a manager, umpire or coach. 
Id. at 918. The court noted a consistent history in this area; see also Mussarova v. Garland, 562 
F.Supp.3d 837 (C.D. Ca. 2022) (determining that the plaintiff's awards as a water polo player were 
not awarded as a water polo coach); Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 
131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Oh. 2015) (concluding that the AAO's reasoning, relevant statutory and 
regulatory language, and case law was not arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with 
the law in finding that an Olympic gold medal gymnast must meet the extraordinary ability 
classification through her achievements as a coach, her intended area of expertise). 
While we acknowledge the possibility of a beneficiary's extraordinary claim in more than one field, 
such as I I and I I instruction, a petitioner, however, must demonstrate "by clear 
evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise." See 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 1 In this case, based on the record before us, the Beneficiary 
intends to continue to work in the area ofl school management andl I instruction rather than 
competing as I Thus, the Petitioner must satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
through the Beneficiary's achievements as al lschool manager andl I instructor. 
1 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual provides: 
[T]n general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has 
sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality 
of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such that USCTS 
can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
Because the record reflects that the Beneficiary has not competed as a I in over 15 years and has not achieved 
any recent national or international acclaim as we need not consider whether the Beneficiary's competitive 
achievements have an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability within his area of expertise in 
school management and instruction. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined 
that the Beneficiary fulfilled only one criterion -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for three additional criteria. After reviewing the 
record, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that a beneficiary received prizes or 
awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Beneficia "won 1st place in the 1982 
Series championship," "won the cham ionship in 1993," "has received 
dozens of trophies for professional championships and events in his decades of active 
competition," and his "last major award before retiring in 2001 was 1st place as al in the 
I IPanamericana championship." For the reasons discussed above, these awards relate to the 
Beneficiary's prior career as a I and will not be considered in his area of expertise as a 
I !school manager and instructor. See Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 914; Integrity Gymnastics & 
Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC, 131 F.Supp. 3d at 721; Mussarova, 562 F.Supp. 3d at 837. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on his induction into 
the I. The Petitioner submitted a letter froml I stating 
that the Beneficiary was inducted "for [his] accomplishments and contributions to I I 
I I in regional, national and international competition and as a builder to promote I I" Further, the Petitioner provided screenshots from website regarding the 
nominating process and a reference letter from praising the Beneficiar in the 
The evidence, however, does not indicate that his induction into was 
based on the recognition of his achievements as a I school manager orl instructor 
does not further elaborate and explain that the Beneficiary received his induction into 
on his achievements and recognition inl I school management or _ instruction. 
Indeed,I references the Beneficiary's career in "regional, national and international competition 
and as a builder" as determining factors for his induction. 
Without evidence showing that he received nationally or internatiol ally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in his field of I school management or instruction, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sou ht. 3 On a eal, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's 
membership with the meets this criterion. The Petitioner 
references a letter from who confirmed the Beneficiary's membership and 
stated that "a ___ must have successfully competed in major professional events and have a 
demonstratable record of excellence." In addition, the Petitioner submitted! I bylaws reflecting 
that regular membership requires I who have participated successfully in major 
professional events, i.e.l lwho were major series champions and/or majorl I or 
championship winners in widely-recognized lesser series; at a minimum, must have a demonstrable 
record of excellence, such as recurring podium finishes." Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the Beneficiary fulfilled this criterion based on his membership withl I through I 
school management orl I instruction rather than as a competitive! I See Lee, 23 7 F. 
Supp. 2d at 914; Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC, 131 F.Supp. 3d at 721; 
Mussarova, 562 F. Supp. 33d at 837. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's 
membership with meets this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on membership 
withl land references a letter from I who stated that 
"[t ]he largest sanctioning body in the USA founded in 1944 -has certified [ the Petitioner] 
as an approved, accredited training provider in accordance with its rules and regulations." The letter, 
however, does not reflect that the Beneficiary is a member of I I rather, the letter cites to the 
Petitioner's membership. Moreover, the letter does not indicate the membership requirements for I I nor does it show that outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts, are required for membership. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary is a member of and that membership meets the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. 
As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills the criterion. 
e. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude users from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many F orrn 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after users approves prior 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a foreign associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
nonimmigrant pet1t10ns. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d at 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. Although the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for an additional criterion on appeal regarding published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we 
need not address this ground because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 5 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 918 (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball 
players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19905221 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neuroscientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by meeting three 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a neuroscientist and is currently employed as a postdoctoral researcher at the 
University of I His research is focused on one of the aspects of I disease called University of 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria; namely, participation as a judge 
of the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); original contributions of major significance at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria, relating to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. The Petitioner's documented involvement in peer review 
for scientific journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied 
field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has written 
several scholarly articles in professional publications in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfied the original contributions criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation and evidence of 
his publication of various scholarly articles in the field of neuroscience. The Director concluded, 
however, that while the record reflects that the Petitioner has made research contributions in the field 
of neuroscience and the specialized field of _______________ disease, the 
evidence did not demonstrate that his research had a broader impact or influence, such that his 
contributions could be considered of major significance in the field. The Director emphasized that the 
letters were not supported by sufficient independent and objective evidence establishing the 
significance of the Petitioner's contributions. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred 
by improperly expanding the Petitioner's field of endeavor, and also asserted that he did not afford the 
expert opinion letters proper evidentiary weight. 
2 
In reviewing this criterion, we have considered the submitted letters, 1 published materials, and the 
Petitioner's peer review of articles in the field, as well as his statement in support of the petition. For 
the reasons discussed below, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's research contributions 
are of major significance in his field. 2 
In his statement, the Petitioner explained that he is a research scientist specializing in the field of 
neuroscience, and that he has been working in this area of science for over 12 years. He indicated that 
he has conducted his research at various institutions during the course of his career, including the 
University of1 in Germany, the University ofl I in Portugal, , the !University of in Brazil, and the University of lwhere he is currently performing post-doctoral 
research. 
Counsel for the Petitioner ex lained in a letter of support that the Petitioner has found and developed 
a new way to a henomenon in whichl I patients may exhibit 
sudden and temporary abilities, in in a I lmodel, thus making it 
possible to conduct in-depth studies of its mechanism. He further claimed that this work is 
groundbreaking and constitutes a significant scientific breakthrough that will pave the way for a better 
life for I I patients and their families, noting that of 28 articles written on this subject, the 
Petitioner had authored six of those articles. Counsel indicated that the Petitioner's contributions have 
made it possible to prove, isolate, and map out the precise mechanisms in the part of the brain involved 
in I 
The Petitioner's supporting evidence includes numerous letters of support from others in the field. A 
letter froml I Visiting Assistant Professor in the De artment of Educational Leadership for 
the School of Education at the Universit o states that the Petitioner's development 
of the I that replicates ______ seen in humans is the first of its kind and 
reveals brain mechanisms previously not known to be involved in the phenomenon. I I I Associate Professor and Head of the Physical Education Program at the 
University of states that the Petitioner's research on this matter, which was published in 
the journal Behavioral Brain Research, has received much attention from scientific experts and 
clinicians. He further noted that the Petitioner was invited to present his findings at numerous 
conferences hosted by the International Behavioral Neuroscience Society and the Society for 
Neuroscience notin that scientific accomplishments are a prerequisite to receiving such invitations. 
P Professor in the Department of Basic and Clinical Psychology 
and Psychobiology at the University _ (Spain), again references the Petitioner's replication of I I in a lmodel using stimulation, noting that this novel discovery 
1 While we may not discuss every letter and supporting document in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each 
one in evaluating whether the Petitioner established that he meets this criterion. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously considered the Petitioner's contributions to the field of 
neuroscience as a whole, rather than the subfield of study related t ______________ disease. 
However, we note that the decision discusses the lack of independent, objective evidence to demonstrate the nature of the 
Petitioner's contributions in both the broad field of neuroscience as well as the narrow subfield ot I disease as the basis for denial. Moreover, we exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, 
policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 l&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record 
anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. 
3 
"opens doors to several different techniques and approaches that can now be used to thoroughly 
understand the brain mechanism underlying! 
Professor of Experimental and Biology Psychology at the 
University in I Germany, states that the Petitioner has "made major contributions not only to 
the understanding of the I I but also to the development of 
a new method to investigate I He notes again that the Petitioner's model 
was the first of its kind and therefore substantiates his original contributions to the field. 
A letter from I Assistant Professor at University School of Medicine, School 
of Endocrinology and Metabolism, praises the Petitioner's academic and research achievements and 
notes that his work is internationally recognized and that he has received numerous grants and travel 
awards that permit him to disseminate his findings throughout the world. She concludes that she has 
no doubt that the Petitioner, "with all of his contributions and achievements, has ascended to the very 
top of his field of endeavor." Further, in an updated letter submitted in response to the Director's 
request for evidence, she emphasizes that the Petitioner was the first scientist to discover and prove 
the crucial role of thel I disease. 
These, as well as other reference letters and documents not specifically discussed here, sufficiently 
confirm that the Petitioner's research, specifically his development of the I model that replicates 
seen in humans, is original and unique. Notwithstanding this finding, however, 
the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his research constitutes "contributions of major 
significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
While the record includes some evidence that the Petitioner's research has been recognized in the field 
of neuroscience and subfield related tol I research, it is insufficient to confirm that his work 
has been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Indeed, some of the Petitioner's references 
indicate that his research findings might one day impact the field in a significant way. For example, 
a letter froml I Professor and Director of thel I in the 
Department of Psychological Sciences Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of I I states that "the results of his research are exceptional and have fundamentally changed 
our basic concepts of understanding how the brain processes I I and I I into 
motion and how we may treatl I disease." Althou h she states that the 
Petitioner's line of work "has already broadly impacted the understandin of and 
could lead to novel clinical approaches to treating disease, there is no 
indication that his findings have already resulted in such approaches or treatments. (Emphasis added). 
It appears Professor quates the Petitioner's discoveries that have the potential to be significant 
within the field with developments that have already impacted the field. Such a correlation is not 
appropriate as the regulation requires contributions that have already made a significant impact. 
Likewise, Professor! I states in his letter that the Petitioner's contributions "could provide 
novel I I approaches to treat Em hasis added). Moreover, Professor I I comments on the use of the Petitioner's model in the stud of other disorders 
in a clinical setting, specifically his investigation of whether I could ameliorate! I deficits induced by an 
4 
antipsychotic drug. She notes that millions of patients on antipsychotics "may benefit from these 
findings because they will aid the development of clinical therapies to treat several symptoms." 
(Emphasis added). These reference letters discuss the potential impact of the Petitioner's work. This 
criterion, however, requires evidence that his work has already made contributions of major 
significance in the field. Speculations of his work's potential impact, thus, are insufficient to satisfy 
this criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We note that many of the letters also discuss the published findings of the Petitioner, and reference 
various articles relating to his work. For example, Board of Trustees member and 
Distinguished Professor Head of I I in the University ofl I 
Department of Psychology, comments that the Petitioner has "published some outstanding papers" 
and that "the papers stemming from his Ph.D. work have contributed greatly to our understanding of 
th disease." The expert letters, however, do not 
describe the manner in which these articles are influential or heavily relied upon. Although some of 
the experts note that the Petitioner's articles are published in top publications, none of the experts 
indicate that he or she has cited to the Petitioner's work within their own published research. 
The Director noted that at the time of the decision, Google Scholar indicated that the Petitioner had 
garnered 27 citations, including self-citations, to four of his publications. While this moderate amount 
of citations demonstrates awareness of the Petitioner's work and its value, not every researcher who 
performs moderately valuable research has inherently made a contribution of major significance to the 
field as a whole. It remains the Petitioner's burden to document the actual impact of his articles. The 
Petitioner has not provided probative evidence to establish how those findings or citations of his work by 
others have significantly contributed to his field as required by this regulatory criterion. The Petitioner 
did not submit documentation of his citation history, nor did he submit any documentary evidence 
demonstrating that his articles have been unusually influential, such as articles that discuss in-depth 
the Petitioner's findings or credit the Petitioner with influencing or impacting the field. In this case, 
the Petitioner's documentary evidence is not reflective of having a significant impact in the field. The 
Petitioner has not established how those findings or citations of his work by others have demonstrated 
that his work has been seminal in, or has significantly contributed to, his field as a whole. 
We note the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the expert letters were not sufficiently considered by 
the Director. The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been 
considered above. However, for the reasons we have discussed, the letters and other evidence in the 
record fail to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" 
in the field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory 
opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we have in this case, 
evaluate the content of those letters as to whether they support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 
795-96. Thus, the content of the references' statements are important considerations 
Letters from experts in the field that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
5 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 Here, the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has 
had in the overall field. While the writers praise the Petitioner's research and applaud his breakthrough 
with regard to the development of the model that replicates I seen in humans, 
it is unclear whether this breakthrough finding has been developed and adopted by a large enough 
portion of the field to be considered a contribution of major significance in the field as a whole. As 
noted above, several of the experts comment on the potential for the Petitioner' I model to aid 
in the development of clinical therapies and approaches in treating! I disease and other 
neurologic disorders. If the breakthrough has the likely potential to impact the field at some future 
time, this is not sufficient to demonstrate eligibility under this criterion. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. at 135-136. 
The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of musical contributions of major significance. As such, he has not demonstrated that he meets 
this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a scientific researcher who has gained some recognition for his work. But 
he has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage 
of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above 
stated reasons. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 28, 2023 In Re: 27611586 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a partner in a capital management firm, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal as 
moot. 
The Director denied the petition in November 2022. The Petitioner filed the appeal four months later, 
in March 2023. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the appeal "is filed subsequent to a timely Motion 
to Reopen." The Petitioner submits copies of documents that he had submitted in December 2022 in 
support of that motion. 
In the March 2023 appellate brief, the Petitioner states that the "appeal .. . is postmarked within 30 
days of service of the Denial," but the appeal does not include a copy of a denial notice or any other 
evidence that the Director denied the petition in February or March 2023. The Petitioner provides no 
date ofservice other than November 10, 2022, which was the date of the original decision. 1 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicate that the Director reopened the petition in 
February 2023, and therefore the November 2022 denial is no longer in effect. But there is no record 
that the Director issued any decision after that time. The Petitioner does not attach or cite to any 
decision from the reopened proceeding. As there is no evidence of a decision following the February 
2023 reopening , the proceeding appears to remain pending. Therefore , we must dismiss the appeal as 
moot, because there is no decision for the Petitioner to contest on appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 A March 2023 appeal of a November 2022 decision would be rejected as untimely under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 28, 2023 In Re: 27611613 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an assistant professor of computer science, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the Petitioner 
did not establish that he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary 
ability and that his entry will substantially benefit the United States. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act makes visas available to noncitizens: 
• who have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics 
which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation ; 
• who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
• whose entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an assistant professor and researcher in the field of computer 
science with research interests in the areas of Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) based information 
retrieval, the semantic web, and data mining. He completed his bachelor's and master's degrees in 
computer enrneering at a Chinese university and received his doctorate in computer science fromI University in 2006. The Petitioner indicates he has been employed as an assistant ~r of computer science for a community college within the City University I I 
L___J system since 2004. In separate statements, the Petitioner has expressed his intent to continue 
serving in his current faculty position as well as to start his own technology-based company that would 
rely on his research in the computer science field and expand it for commercial use. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 1 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
1 In his response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner also claimed he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires documentation ofpublished materials about the individual and their work in professional 
publications or major media. The Director determined the submitted evidence did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner 
does not contest that determination on appeal, nor has he claimed that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(vii), (ix) or (x). As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these five criteria on appeal, we consider 
them to be waived. See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to 
appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005) (citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998). 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director determined the Petitioner satisfied only one of the claimed criteria, related to authorship 
of scholarly articles in professional publications, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We agree with that 
determination. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has published two articles that appeared in the 
journals Data & Knowledge Engineering and Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the Director reached unjustified 
conclusions with respect to the four remaining claimed criteria. He maintains that he satisfies at least 
three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is otherwise eligible for the classification 
sought. 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate he was the rec1p1ent of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was "excellence in the 
field" include but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors.2 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated he was submitting the following evidence in support of 
this criterion: (1) a September 2001 letter from a professor atl l(his Ph.D. advisor) inviting 
him to participate in the MLabNet 2001 Seminar to be held in Japan in October 2001, in conjunction 
with the Tokyo-based National Institute oflnformatics (NII); and (2) the January 2002 edition of NII 
News which is written almost exclusively in the Japanese language and was not accompanied by a 
certified English translation as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The invitation to the MLabNet 
2001 Seminar indicates that the Petitioner's expenses would be fully paid through the computer 
science department's National Science Foundation (NSF) grant. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that his initial evidence did not establish he was the 
recipient of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his field and 
therefore did not meet the plain language of this criterion. The Director provided a list ofthe types of 
evidence he could provide to establish eligibility and advised him of the need for translations of any 
foreign language documentation submitted. The record reflects that although the Petitioner responded 
to the RFE, he did not address this criterion in his response. Accordingly, the Director determined 
that he did not meet this criterion. 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F(2) appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (indicating that an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution. for example, may have little national or international significance). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner, asserts that "having been INVITED and ATTENDED the National Science 
Foundation's MLabNet Seminar is a highly praised honor for any person who has been recognized for 
their exceptional work and contribution in the Computer Science field." He also emphasizes that the 
seminar was organized by the NSF's Office of International Science and Engineering, noting that 
invitees "have been technically 'internationally awarded' an opportunity to attend the seminar." He 
provides additional information regarding MLabN et and the purpose ofthe 2001 seminar and indicates 
he was invited because he "had ... demonstrated his excellence in the field of endeavor." 
The Petitioner resubmits a copy of the September 2001 invitation letter from his Ph.D. advisor at I land evidence related to the NSF grant that fonded participation ofthe invitees. According 
to this documentation, the NSF awarded $5,290 to "support the participation ofAmerican scientists in 
a U.S.-Japan seminar on MLabNet 2000 advanced multimedia systems and applications." It indicates 
that the seminar's organizers "made a special effort to involve younger researchers, postdocs and 
graduate students as both participants and observers." 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner has been the recipient of an award or prize for 
excellence in his field. While we acknowledge his claim that it was an honor for him to be invited to 
attend the MLabN et Seminar in Japan as a graduate student, we cannot conclude this invitation was 
an "award or prize," or that he was invited to the seminar in recognition of his excellence in the field. 
The only "award" documented is an NSF grant awarded to a university and intended to support any 
unnamed "American scientists" who may be invited to participate in the seminar. The Petitioner may 
have benefited from the grant award, but he was not the individual recipient. The grant abstract 
provides no criteria for the selection of participants and does not indicate whether those outside of the 
awarded university were eligible to be invited under the auspices of the NSF grant. 
Finally, although the Petitioner initially indicated that he was submitting the January 2002 NII News 
publication in support of this criterion, it was not accompanied by the required English translation, 
and we cannot determine whether or to what extent it may support his claims. Therefore, for the 
reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but that they have participated in judging the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specialization. Peer reviewing for a scholarly journal may meet this criterion if a petitioner provides 
evidence of a request from the journal for the person to do the review, and proof that the review was 
actually completed. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he was invited to review three papers submitted to the 
NSF/National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Intelligence and Security Informatics Symposium held in 
Arizona in June 2003, along with evidence that he completed his peer review of all three articles. He 
also provided evidence that he reviewed a paper submitted for publication to Information Sciences in 
April 2008. While the Director concluded that the documentation did not demonstrate the Petitioner's 
4 
completion ofpeer review activities, we disagree and conclude that the submitted evidence is sufficient 
to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This criterion calls for evidence of a petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that their contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have demonstrably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he satisfied this criterion based on his "scholarly 
contributions done for NSF/NTT "bis "Retrieval Recomj'endations," and his article 'l II 'which was published in Data & Knowledge 
Engineering in 2008. Based on the submitted documentation, the referenced "contributions done for 
NSF/NU" refers to the Petitioner's peer review activities for the 2003 NSF/NU Symposium on 
Intelligence and Security Informatics, while the "Retrieval Recommendations" appears to refer to his 
peer review service for the journal Information Sciences, in 2008. He did not explain how his peer 
review of other researchers' work could be considered an "original" contribution, nor did he provide 
support for a claim that his contributions as a peer reviewer have been of major significance in the 
field of computer science. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his article published in Data & Knowledge Engineering 
but did not identify or document how his research findings have been widely implemented throughout 
his field or how his research has impacted or influenced the field. Although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major 
significance. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the reaction from the field 
upon the dissemination of his work confirms that his research rises to the level of a "contribution of 
major significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).3 The Petitioner did not provide a 
citation history for his published work or other evidence of its impact or influence, nor did he identify 
a specific original contribution he has made in his research area or explain the significance of his 
contributions. 
In the RFE, the Director provided a list of the types of documentary evidence the Petitioner could 
submit, such as testimonial letters from experts in the field, evidence that people throughout the field 
regard his original contributions as important, evidence that his work has been widely cited or has 
provoked widespread commentary, or evidence that his work is being implemented by others. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion or include any additional evidence. 
Accordingly, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. The Director 
observed that the Petitioner's published research demonstrated original contributions in his field but 
emphasized that he had not provided evidence that his work had been widely cited. The Director also 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual) (stating that "[p Jeer­
reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a 
citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of their 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
5 
noted, in both the RFE and the denial, that USCIS had reviewed the Petitioner's publicly available 
Google Scholar profile and found it did not support a finding that his work had received significant 
notice from others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that while his own publications have only 10 cumulative citations, 
his work "did indirectly gamer hundreds of citations" because "his data was cited by other researchers 
and scholars as a very reliable source of data" and "their articles and publications did contribute to a 
major significance in the field of computer science." The Petitioner submits a Scotus citation history 
corroborating that his 2008 article has been cited 10 times. This evidence also provides citation counts 
for articles citing the Petitioner's work and shows that three ofthose articles have been cited 434, 375, 
and 126 times, respectively. He contends the Director's conclusion that he has not made contributions 
of major significance in the field of computer science is a "completely unjustified assumption." 
The Petitioner also provides evidence his 2005 conference paper, '~-----------~ I I" has been accessed digitally 707 times. Finally, 
he reiterates his previous claim that his peer review activities satisfy this criterion and submits 
evidence to document that one of the papers he reviewed for the 2003 NSF/NIJ Symposium on 
Intelligence and Security Informatics has been accessed 1,669 times. He states this level of interest in 
the paper demonstrates the major significance of his scholarly contribution. 
As noted, the Petitioner was provided an opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of this 
criterion prior to the denial of the petition and did not address it in his RFE response. The Petitioner 
does not contend that the evidence provided for the first time on appeal was unavailable at the time he 
responded to the Director's RFE. Therefore, we need not consider this evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all evidence requested in an RFE to be submitted together at one time); see 
also Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put 
on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record 
before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal"); see also Matter ofObaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
Nevertheless, even ifthe Petitioner had submitted the same evidence in response to the RFE, it would 
be insufficient to show that he meets this criterion. The Petitioner asserts that his published work has 
garnered nearly 1000 "indirect citations" and appears to suggest that any paper referenced in a highly 
cited publication should be deemed a contribution of major significance in a given field. He provides 
no evidentiary basis for this broad supposition. He has not, for example, provided copies ofthe papers 
that cited his work in support ofhis claim that his research findings were highly impactful or influential 
on other researchers. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in 
a petitioner's published or presented work. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
number of citations received by his published work is commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner provides evidence that one of his articles has been digitally accessed over 700 times, 
but the record does not contain comparative information, such as access data for other papers published 
in his field in the same year. Without supporting evidence to provide such context, he has not 
supported his claim that the total number of times his paper was accessed establishes the major 
significance of his published research. In addition, an access count does not tell us whether or how 
6 
the Petitioner's research findings have been used in subsequent studies. If access of his paper has 
rarely resulted in citations, then the access count does not appear to correlate to the impact or influence 
ofthe Petitioner's research in the field. Here, although he provided evidence that his 2005 conference 
paper was accessed 707 times, he did not provide evidence that this paper has been cited by any other 
researchers. Finally, the Petitioner provides evidence that an article he peer-reviewed prior to 
publication has been accessed over 1600 times and cited 22 times. Even if we determined that this 
article constituted a contribution of major significance in the field, it was not co-authored by the 
Petitioner and cannot be considered his original contribution to the field; his role was limited to the 
provision of edits and comments as part of his service as a peer reviewer. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but to also demonstrate 
why they are considered to be of major significance in the field. Here, for the reasons discussed, the 
Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
This criterion requires a two-part determination in which we consider both (1) the significance of an 
individual's role within an organization or establishment (or within a division or department of an 
organization or establishment), and (2) the reputation of the organization or establishment (or its 
division or department). For a leading role, the evidence should establish that the individual is (or 
was) a leader within the organization. A title, with appropriate matching duties may help to 
demonstrate performance in a leading role. For a critical role, the evidence should establish that the 
person has contributed n a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities ( or those of a specific division or department thereof See generally, 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Letters from persons with personal knowledge of the 
significance of the individual's leading or critical role can be persuasive if they contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role within an organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. Id. 
In a cover letter accompanying the petition, the Petitioner stated he "has performed in a critical role 
for organizations that have a distinguished reputation" and indicated he was submitting academic 
records relating to his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; a copy of his Ph.D. dissertation; an 
academic credentials evaluation report; and proof of his membership in Triple Nine Society, which 
was granted based on his submission of score at or above the 99.9th percentile on a standardized 
intelligence or general aptitude test. He did not identify the organization( s) for which he performed 
in a critical role, identify the specific critical role( s) he has held, or provide letters from persons with 
knowledge ofhis performance in such roles. Further, he did not submit evidence intended to establish 
the distinguished reputation of a specific organization or establishment. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this evidence and other evidence submitted in support of the 
petition, and informed the Petitioner why it was insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
The RFE provided a list of evidence the Petitioner could submit, emphasizing that letters from current 
or former employers with personal knowledge of the significance of his roles, or other documentary 
7 
evidence, may be particularly effective in supporting his claim. Although the Petitioner submitted a 
response to the RFE, he did not provide any additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the evidence he previously provided in support of this criterion 
but does not articulate a claim that the Director erred in evaluating this evidence under the plain 
language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner states he has "continued to 
perform critical roles in organizations that have a distinguished reputation in the Computer Science 
field," noting he is now a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
Computer Society. He describes this association as "the world's leading membership organization 
dedicated to science and technology" and a "community for technology leaders." The evidence on 
appeal documents that the Petitioner became a member of IEEE and IEEE Computer Society in 2023. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the 
plain language ofthis criterion. Based on the evidence he provided, he appears to rely on his academic 
achievements and association memberships rather than his performance in a leading or critical role for 
an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 4 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has spent most ofhis post-graduate professional career employed 
as an assistant professor for a community college within thd lsystem in New York. However, 
he has not submitted evidence of his leading or critical role with this organization or evidence of the 
distinguished reputation of the college or department that employs him. A letter from his employer's 
human resources department provides his job title and current salary and confirms that he is 
responsible for "teaching courses and conducting research in the field of Computer Science." The 
letter does not contain sufficient detail to support a determination that the Petitioner performs in a 
leading or critical role for this organization. The record also contains a May 2000 employment offer 
letter froml I The Petitioner's curriculum vitae indicates he worked 
for this company as a web developer from May 2000 until August 2001, but the record does not contain 
evidence that he performed in a leading or critical role or establish the company's distinguished 
reputation. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The Petitioner has satisfied only two of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore 
does not meet the initial evidence requirement for this classification. As noted, the Director also 
determined the Petitioner did not establish that he intends to enter the United States to continue work 
4 As noted, the Petitioner did not claim that he can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires evidence 
of an individual's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their fields. Although the 
Petitioner was a member of Triple Nine Society at the time of filing, the record does not show this association is in the 
computer science or engineering field or that it requires outstanding achievements as judged by experts in the field. The 
Petitioner's membership in IEEE Computer Society post-dates the filing of the petition. A petitioner must establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought at the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to be eligible through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
8 
in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
Detailed discussion of these remaining grounds for denial cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve and will not discuss the Petitioner's appellate arguments relating to these issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7163794 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an image consultant who coaches beauty pageant contestants , seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be "an internationally recognized Image Consultant who has achieved success in 
her field through her coaching and tutelage of some of Latin America's most important beauty queens." 
The Petitioner is the director and principal instructor atl I, which she 
founded in Venezuela in 2003. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iv) and (viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other three claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met only the 
fourth criterion, pertaining to acting as a judge. Below, we discuss the other four claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner submits copies of newspaper articles, mostly discussing individual 
pageant contestants. The articles identify the Petitioner as the contestants' trainer, but this one mention 
does not make the articles published material about her. Other articles briefly quote the Petitioner about 
upcoming events. 
2 
The Petitioner claims that "the plain language of the criterion requires that the articles be about the 
beneficiary or the beneficiary's work." The language of the regulation requires "[p ]ublished material 
about the alien ... relating to the alien's work." The Petitioner's insertion of the conjunction "or" 
critically changes the meaning of the passage. 1 The published material must be "about the alien" and 
"relat[e] to the alien's work in the field." 
The Petitioner contends: 
Because [she] is an Image Consultant, her work is always conducted in unison with a 
contestant/individual. Therefore, when she is featured in major media discussing her work 
as an image consultant, there will also be references to the contestants with whom she 
worked in the context of her success. Thus, as required by this criterion, the 
aforementioned articles are about the beneficiary and her work in the field as an Image 
Consultant, coaching contestants at beauty pageants. 
The submitted articles are not about the Petitioner, with "references to the contestants." The contestants 
are the primary focus of the articles; a typical article refers to the Petitioner once, stating that she trained 
a particular contestant or will be traveling with her. The headlines to the articles refer to the contestants, 
either by name or by other descriptions. The record does not support the Petitioner's contention that these 
articles are "entirely about [the Petitioner] and her work as an Image Consultant." The Petitioner is not 
the subject of any of the articles submitted as evidence of published material about her. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion through her work with pageant contestants, and her work on 
fashion shows and television programs. 
The Petitioner states that "her clients' international beauty pageants" constitute display of her work at 
artistic showcases, because the Petitioner has significant influence over the appearance and presentation 
of each contestant. The Director found that the primary purpose behind the pageants was competitive 
rather than artistic. We acknowledge the Petitioner's observation that prizes exist in the arts, but the 
awarding of prizes and titles at beauty pageants is not incidental or ancillary to the events. Rather, 
competing for titles is the primary purpose of these pageants, many of which are named after the top title 
to be awarded there. 
Furthermore, local news coverage of the pageants focuses on the contestants themselves, mentioning the 
Petitioner's name in passing. The Petitioner may have put great effort into instructing and training these 
models, but ultimately it is the contestants themselves who are presented to the audience, and the 
contestants, not their trainer, win the pageant titles. 
1 The word "or" appears in the regulation only in a completely separate context, when distinguishing between "professional 
or major trade publications or other major media." 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that "beauty pageants ... evaluate [a] contestant's artistic abilities." The Petitioner, 
however, is not the contestant. She many nurture the talents of the contestants, but ultimately it is the 
contestants, not their teachers, who are evaluated first-hand, and to whatever extent a pageant may 
constitute a display, the work displayed is that of the contestants, not their mentors. By way of analogy, 
when a painting hangs in a museum, it is the painter's own work that is on display, not the work of the 
painter's teachers. A teacher can shape a student's talents, but those talents ultimately belong to the 
student. 
Furthermore, an organizational chart shows thatl !employs several teachers. This indicates that the 
Petitioner is not solely, personally responsible for training the pageant contestants. The Petitioner does 
not explain why it is her work, not that of the teachers ( or contestants), that is on display at a pageant. 
The Petitioner has also organized fashion shows. These events do not appear to be competitive, but the 
primary focus of attention appears to be the garments shown. The Petitioner does not claim to have 
designed the clothing that is displayed at these fashion shows. 
The Petitioner also contends that "her work on the television programs .__ ________ __, and I t also constitute artistic displays. The Petitioner, however, does not establish that the 
shows exist in order to <ljsniav her artistic work. The nmductian manager otl I. a regional 
television station based i~ I describes I jas "a reality show where a group 
of participants ... demonstrate why do they want to be models ... dancers ... [or] singers?, and why do 
they want the crown?" The record does not show the extent, if any, to which a reality show about aspiring 
models reflects the Petitioner's artistry. A television program is not inherently an artistic display or 
showcase of the work of the program's producer. 
.__ _________ -,....c;.;;is;_;n=o.;;_t;_;a;.;._;_;te=le.;;..;,vision program in its own right. Rather, it is a recurring segment 
on the children's program.__ ___ ~ A newspaper article indicates that the segments are filmed by 
I l"to be later edited and transmitted byl I" That article also states that the segment "is 
aimed at a child audience, to teach them the importance of having a positive image at all times, based on 
body hygiene, personal grooming, social behavior, table etiquette, colors and combinations, good posture, 
good manners, among others." This description indicates that the principal purpose of 'I I 
I I' is educational or instructional, rather than artistic. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. The Petitioner 
claims that her roles with I I andl lsatisfy this criterion, but the record does not 
support these claims. 
The Petitioner's leading role as director ofl lis not in dispute. To establish! Is 
distinguished reputation, however, requires evidence to allow a meaningful comparison betwee~n""FI =='-----, 
4 
and other entities of its kind. A printout froml l's own website amounts to self-serving promotional 
material rather than evidence of the entity's reputation. 
The Petitioner submits copies of newspaper articles dated between 2005 and 2012, said to be "about the 
distinguished reputation of the organization." Some articles are about individual pageant contestants, 
while others are about events such as a pageant at a fair and a fashion show at a shopping center; the 
articles indicate that the various models and contestants trained atl l Some of the events were in­
house pageants, in which all the contestants were I I students. The articles show thatl ~ s 
contestants receive some degree of news coverage, and have won some of the pageants in which they 
competed, but this information lacks necessary context. The term "distinguished reputation" is inherently 
comparative, but the submitted articles do not provide any basis for c~mparisol between! I and 
other agencies. For example, they do not show that contestants trained b win more pageants, or 
that contestants froml I receive more news coverage than contestants who trained elsewhere. 
Because preparing contestants for beauty pageants is a fundamental purpose of the I I it 
is not inherently a mark of distinction that some o±1 I's students have participated in some of those 
pageants. Not all pageants are of equal importance; the Petitioner acknowledges that "2.5 million girls 
participate in 100,000 bea~ants each year." The Petitioner has not established the prestige of the 
particular events in whiclL__J has entered contestants. The presence of contestants from more than 
one country does not suffice in this regard. 
The Petitioner also claims that she performed in a leadin or critical role for b roducing 
~--------~' and producing and hosting Another official 
states that the station does not employ the Petitioner as the producer of.__ ______ _.rather, the 
Petitioner is an "independent ... Producer" who purchased the airtime for the program. This is consistent 
with social media posts in the record that identify I I as the show's sponsor. The Petitioner 
does not establish that her independent production of a television program amounts to a leading or critical 
role for the television station that broadcasts that program. The Petitioner does not show, for example, 
that the program significantly increased the channel's viewership. A screen capture of an advertisement 
for I I from that program's own YouTube channel, shows that the advertisement had 
been viewed 11 times since May 2018, nearly 10 months before the petition's May 2019 filing date. 
Another clip from the show indicated three views since February 2018. 
The Petitioner has also not established that has a distin uished reputation. Information in the 
record indicates that the channel broadcasts "in the ~----~ Region" of Venezuela. A printout 
from Corp Web.net indicates thatl l"has a series of strategic alliances that position it not only 
nationally but also internationally," but does not elaborate. A web printout from ProductionHub.com 
states that I I is Venezuela's largest production company and television station," but this 
information appears not in a news article, but in a promotional press release from the company that 
provided equipment to the station. (The phrase "press release" appears between the headline and main 
body of the text.) 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submits a three-page list, showing her claimed monthly income between October 2003 and 
November 2018. This document is not contemporaneous documentation, and it does not identify the 
source(s) of the Petitioner's income or explain how she earned it. 
Income statements from an accountant attest to the Petitioner's annual income for the above years. The 
accountant lists several seemingly independent sources of income, but rather than break down the 
amounts from each source, the accountant simply states the total. For examre, the Petitioner earned her 
2009 income as "Manager and Sole Shareholder o~._ _______ ____._, Image Advisor, Organizer 
of Beauty events, beauty and modeling contests and as host of television events with several companies 
as per contracts and Independent Professional." 
Itemized lists of contracts and work agreements show fees paid for specific projects, but do not distinguish 
between fees paid tol land income directly earned by the Petitioner. Sample work agreements in 
the record name the Petitioner as the contracted party, but those documents also indicate that she is acting 
asl Is representative. Even a~ l's sole shareholder, she cannot claim the company's gross 
income as her personal salary or remuneration for services, as some of that money must go toward other 
expenses, such as salaries for the I I's other employees. 
The Petitioner states that she submits "articles discussing the salary for the highest paid Image 
Consultants/Pageant Coaches in the United States," but these articles are inadequate for several reasons: 
The Petitioner's work took place outside the United States; the figures cited in the reports are anecdotal, 
rather than the result of systematic surveys; and the Petitioner's income derives from several sources 
besides one-on-one coaching of pageant contestants. The Petitioner has not provided a sufficient basis 
for comparison to show that her earnings are high compared to others performing similar work in 
Venezuela. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the distinction between "salary" and "other remuneration," and does 
not address other significant deficiencies in the evidence, discussed above. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a determination that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner asserts that she is "one of Venezuela's most important Image Consultants in the Beauty 
Pageant Industry," and has worked"[ a ]s an Image Consultant for top level beauty pageants." The record, 
however, lacks evidence to support these claims by allowing an objective comparison between the 
G 
Petitioner and other image consultants in Venezuela. Most of the evidence in the record concerns the 
.__ _______ ___. of Venezuela, particularly the city o~ lin the state o-0 consistent 
with a primarily local or regional reputation. The Petitioner has judged pageants outside of Venezuela, 
but the pageants named on a submitted list were all produced by the same person in the Dominican 
Republic, which does not indicate widespread recognition. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8999311 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a wireless communications engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his raduate degrees at the University I After holding engineering 
positions at I I an he started working in his current position as a senior staff 
engineer/researcher at~---------~' in February 2019, four months before filing the 
present petition. He holds 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the three evidentiary criteria numbered (iv), (vi), and (ix). 
The Director made contradictory findings regarding criterion (v), first stating that the Petitioner met 
its requirements, but then stating that the Petitioner had not established that his original contributions 
2 
were of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all six claimed 
evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met at least three criteria. Therefore, rather than discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary 
criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner is an experienced and accomplished engineer in his field, but 
these factors do not necessarily add up to sustained national or international acclaim; not everyone 
with a productive career is among the small percentage at the very top of their field. 
The Petitioner has submitted emphatic and enthusiastic letters from various peers and colleagues, but, 
significantly, the objective documentation in the record is not on par with the assertions in those letters. 
For instance, the Petitioner is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
(IEEE). The Petitioner claims that this membership satisfies 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires 
documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. A chief scientist at I I who is also a Fell ow of 
the IEEE, states: "Senior membership is highly selective and awarded solely to those candidates who 
have been judged by their accomplished peers as having attainted [sic] outstanding achievements in their 
field." 
The Petitioner submits a copy of the IEEE's Bylaws. Relevant excerpts of section 1-104 draw crucial 
distinctions between "Senior Member" and "Fellow" status: 
2. Fellow. The grade of Fellow recognizes unusual distinction in the profession and 
shall be conferred by the Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record 
of accomplishments in any of the IEEE fields of interest .... The accomplishments 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
that are being honored shall have contributed importantly to the advancement or 
application of engineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of 
significant value to society .... 
3. Senior Member. The grade of Senior Member is the highest for which application 
may be made and shall require experience reflecting professional maturity. For 
admission or transfer to the grade of Senior Member, a candidate shall be an engineer, 
scientist, educator, technical executive, or originator in IEEE-designated fields. . . . 
The candidate shall have been in professional practice for at least ten years and shall 
have shown significant performance over a period of at least five of those years. 
The Bylaws specify that "significant performance" can take the form of "[p ]ublication of papers, 
books, or inventions." The requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely with 
the regulatory language than the requirements for the Senior Member grade. It is also significant that one 
can apply for the Senior Member grade, whereas elevation to Fellow requires nomination and election at 
the highest levels of the organization. 
Because the aforementioned writer is, himself: an IEEE Fellow, who quotes from IEEE governance 
documents in his letter, he is demonstrably aware of the above distinctions between membership grades. 
Rather than acknowledge those distinctions, he selectively quotes from the bylaws, stating: 'The grade 
of Senior Member is the highest for which application may be made," but omitting vital context from 
the same document. This omission of critical details is a factor to consider when judging the overall 
credibility of the assertions in his letter. We may give less weight to a letter of opinion that is in any way 
questionable. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). 
In the above case, objective documentation in the record directly establishes a degree of exaggeration in 
the quoted letter. Many other claims in the submitted letters are not so immediately amenable to 
comparison with documentation in the record, but this lack of documentary evidence should not be 
construed to give the other letters a presumption of credibility, when those letters contain similarly 
hyperbolic statements to the example discussed above. Subjective evaluations of the Petitioner's work 
as "remarkable" and "excellent," and referring to the Petitioner as "one of the foremost researchers in the 
wireless telecommunications field," have some weight, but must be viewed in the context of the record 
as a whole, including independent documentary evidence. 
This need to balance solicited letters against documentary evidence is evident, for example, when 
considering the Petitioner's involvement in peer review. The Director determined that peer review of 
manuscripts for journals and conference presentations is a routine function in academia, rather than a 
privilege reserved for those at the top of the field. Letters in the record indicate that peer review "is a 
valued service" performed by "distinguished experts," but rather than submit documentation from the 
entities that publish the journals and organized the conference in question, showing how those entities 
select peer reviewers, the Petitioner provides background information about the reputations of those 
organizations. Such information does not address the question at hand. 
The Petitioner has worked with technology involving the~-------------~' the 
manner in which many everyday devices connect to the Internet (for instance, a home security system 
4 
that can be remotely activated and monitored with a smartphone ). Much of this work has been in the 
context of thel I, which is involved in developing international 
telecommunications standards. The work of this project, taken as a whole, impacts the 
telecommunications industry and, as a result, affects millions of people worldwide who rely on 
telecommunications in various ways. It does not follow, however, that only the top engineers were invited 
to participate, or that participation directly resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
Colleagues within the project call the Petitioner "a leading figure inl I" who "has made key 
contributions that have substantially impacted today's telecommunications technologies." 
The nature of the Petitioner's involvement is described in narrow, technical terms, referring for instance 
to his service "as rapporteur of the stud item, 
1r--------,,_ ___ ....1' and "a rapporteur of the normative specification stage in ~---~as 
L_ __ ...,------,...i" The record does not provide sufficient information about how these roles fit within 
the lar er framework. For example, the record does not say how many working groups there are 
within~-~ or how many study items each working group handles. Without this information we cannot 
conclude that the Petitioner's asserted leadership role within specific, granular aspects ofD translate 
into significant impact or influence over the standards project as a whole. 
We agree with the director of~ ~ at I I that "[t]he number of 
services and applications served by I technologies and the impact is massive," but the record does 
not adequately show that this "technology is widely deployed" "[b]ecause of [the Petitioner's] work" or 
that the Petitioner "has been instrumental in bringing this technology into international standardization." 
The record does not include key information aboutD such as the overall size and organization of the 
project. Without this information, the record does not warrant a finding that the importance of the 
Petitioner's work is commensurate with the overall importance ofc=J as an international endeavor. 
Other assertions in the letters are broad and vague. A master researcher at I I states that the 
Petitioner "made highly advanced and original contributions toward the development of important 
features," and that the Petitioner's "initiatives inl I technology have been nothing less than 
remarkable," but does not elaborate with regard to the nature of these contributions and initiatives. A 
common feature in many of the letters is the use of highly technical language without sufficient 
explanation as to how the Petitioner's contributions are significant. Furthermore, while it is helpful to 
explain a given contribution's useful practical applications, those applications themselves do not 
necessarily establish the major significance of that contribution. 
The Petitioner's work has resulted in a number of patents, but the approval of a patent application attests 
only to originality rather than significance. Evidence of their existence is not evidence of their impact. 
Similarly, published articles and conference presentations have the potential to influence the field, but the 
burden is on the Petitioner to show the actual extent of the impact of his work. 
The Petitioner claims "an impressive record of citations" of his published work. Thel I chief 
scientist quoted earlier states that, because the Petitioner is "an industrial researcher where publications 
are not emphasize [sic], like in academia," the Petitioner's citation rate "is very good indeed." The 
Petitioner provides no documentary evidence to support this claim about citation rates for engineers in 
5 
industry rather than academia. The record does show that the Petitioner's most-cited articles2 date from 
when he was a graduate student (and thus publishing in an academic rather than industrial context), but 
the Petitioner does not provide context to show that these articles were cited more than others of their 
kind. The assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence in this regard. See Matter of Obaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter o_f Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 
1980)). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has met the requirements of several individual evidentiary 
criteria, but when viewed under the lens of a final merits determination, these separate pieces do not 
assemble into a complete picture that persuasively shows the Petitioner to be a nationally or 
internationally acclaimed figure at the very top of his field. Success and productivity are not the same as 
acclaim, and the Petitioner has not established the significance of his role in projects of indeterminate size 
and scope. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 At the time of filing, the Petitioner's two most-cited articles had earned, respectively, 38 citations over 14 years and 28 
citations over 11 years. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8056656 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL Y 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a karate athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner did not establish that he seeks to enter the United States to 
continue working in the field of claimed extraordinary ability, or that his entry will substantially benefit 
the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have competed nationally and internationally since 2002, when he was 11 
years old, and to have won several gold, silver, and bronze medals during that time. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director issued a request for evidence in February 2019, identifying several deficiencies in the 
Petitioner's initial evidence. The Petitioner's response did not address any of those deficiencies. Instead, 
the Petitioner asked the Director to consider the petition under a different immigrant classification. The 
Director did not grant this request, because there is no provision to allow a petitioner to change the 
classification sought after the petition has been filed. 1 
1 The filing of one petition, with one filing fee, does not entitle a petitioner to multiple adjudications under different 
classifications. If the Petitioner seeks consideration under a different classification, then he must file a new petition seeking 
that classification. 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed evidentiary criteria. On appeal, 
the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding criterion (iv), relating to 
participation as a judge. Therefore, we consider that issue to be abandoned. 2 The Petitioner maintains 
that he does meet the other five criteria claimed previously. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner states that his membership in "the'-----------~ Team j t meets 
this requirement. A letter OJl I I letterhead indicates: "Admission to I I' is granted 
exclusive[ly] to those who have demonstrated a consistent track record of outstanding achievements in 
this sport. [The Petitioner] was admitted to the club on the basis of his outstanding achievements as 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in this sport." Merely repeating the language 
of the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
The letter also refers to the club's bylaws, but the Petitioner does not submit that document or provide 
information (such as a web address) to permit verification of the claimed membership requirements. 
The letter provides the name of the person who signed it, but not his title atl I The record does not 
say whetherl lemploys the writer, or otherwise granted the writer the authority to make attestations 
onl l's behalf. Another letter from the same writer identifies him as "the Executive Director of the 
I lbranch of0," but does not explain how that organization relates tol I 
I ~s letterhead includes the logo of the International Federation of Karate, and the letter indicates 
tha~ I belongs to that organization, but the record does not contain documentation directly from the 
Federation to support this claim. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary evidence to confirm I Is 
membership requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the claim that I I is a qualifying 
association, but identifies no evidence in the record to support that assertion. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits copies of several articles, but he does not show that they appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner did not provide comparative evidence 
to the significance of the circulation figures provided; one newspaper publishes 1000 copies of each issue, 
and another is a Russian-language magazine published in the United States, where only a small portion 
of the population reads Russian. 
The Petitioner submits information about the Russian news agency Ria Novosti, but the associated article 
appeared on rus4all.ru. The Petitioner did not establish the website's connection with Ria Novosti or 
show that the website in question constitutes major media. Also submitted with the rus4all printout is a 
list of the "Top Sites in Russia," which does not include rus4all. The Petitioner does not explain the 
relevance of the submitted list. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not show that the published materials appeared in qualifying 
publications. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the articles appeared "in major sport-related 
newspapers in his country of origin and beyond," but does not identify any record evidence to support 
that conclusion. The Petitioner had not previously claimed that any of the publications were "sport-related 
newspapers." One, with a title that translates to "Health" in English, includes several headlines related to 
diet, probiotics, and other health-related topics. The Petitioner previously described another publication 
as a "weekly socio-political newspaper." The inconsistent characterizations of the publications 
underscore the lack of persuasive supporting evidence. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner states that he satisfies this criterion by submitting letters from individuals who attest, in 
varying degrees of detail, to the Petitioner's skill and accomplishment as an athlete. The letters do not 
identify any specific athletic contributions or explain how those contributions are of major significance 
in the field. 
For example, the chief instructor ofi I Karate Academy states: "In my opinion [the Petitioner] 
is one of the best Karate master[ s] in the World and his technique is truly unique. He has an outstanding 
background at the highest level of sport and has been a winner [ of] European and Asian championship[ s ], 
4 
and many times champion of his own country." Winning a given competition, at whatever level, is not 
inherently an original contribution of major significance. An athlete can make contributions in the area 
of technique, but calling his technique "truly unique" does not tell us what those contributions are or why 
they are significant. 
A karate coach in Russia does not claim any personal knowledge of the Petitioner's achievements; 
instead, he "reviewed [the Petitioner's] affidavit along with the supporting documents." He states that 
the Petitioner "has clearly made a substantial contribution into this field by virtue of his unique fighting 
style and substantial athletic achievements," but, as above, he does not elaborate with any specific details. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "failure to consider expert testimony and/or affidavits is a violation 
of due process." The Petitioner, however, does not show that the submitted letters identify any specific 
contribution or establish its major significance. The Petitioner contends that he "made an original athletic 
contribution of major significance to his field of endeavor by virtue of winning major national and 
international competitions." The Petitioner does not explain how winning a competition intrinsically 
constitutes an original contribution; every competition ultimately has a winner. 
Furthermore, prizes and awards fall under a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Clearly, the 
regulations contemplate some degree of difference between winning a prize and making an original 
contribution of major significance. An athlete could conceivably make an original contribution that 
allows that athlete to win competitions, but the resulting prize is not self-evident proof of such a 
contribution. Rather, the burden is on the Petitioner to establish the nature of the original contribution 
and explain its significance. Vague references to "unique fighting style" do not meet this burden. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues. 3 
B. Continued Work in the Field and Substantial Prospective Benefit to the United States 
Beyond the above findings, the Director found that the Petitioner "did not provide clear evidence 
showing how he will continue to work in the United States as an athlete," and therefore had not 
established how he would substantially benefit prospectively the United States, as requires by sections 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. Because the Petitioner has not met the threshold requirement of 
establishing extraordinary ability as an athlete, we reserve these remaining issues. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19880517 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior research fellow in neurotoxicology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will remand the 
matter to the Director for further consideration and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitionerj a researcher in the field of neurotoxicology, received his doctorate degree in biomedical 
sciences from. !University in 2018. In addition, he was awarded a Doctor of Veterinary 
Medicine degree at I !Veterinary University in India in 2010 and is a board-licensed 
veterinarian in the United States. Since completing his Ph.D., the Petitioner has worked as a 
postdoctoral research associate atl !University and as a research fellow and senior research 
fellow atl !Department of I A letter from the I I indicates that his 
research projects at the time the etition was filed included development ofbiomarkers forl I 
disease and other diseases using an ultrasensitive real-time I I 
technology, and investigation of the molecular mechanisms of pathological 
genetic risk variants of disease. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of these criteria based on 
his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, his original research contributions, and 
his authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) 
and (vi). 
The Director denied the petition after determining that the Petitioner met only two of the three claimed 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The record indicates that the Petitioner has peer-reviewed 
manuscripts for several journals including Toxicological Sciences, Neurotoxicology, Prion, Journal of 
Cellular Physiology and The American Journal of Pathology, among others. This evidence satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires documentation of the individual's 
2 
participation as the judge of the work of others in his field. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that this criterion was met. 
In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Movement 
Disorders, Neuropharmacology, The American Journal of Pathology, Prion, and The Journal of 
Biological Chemistry, among others, and therefore has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has made original scientific contributions of major significance 
in his field and maintains that the Director erred in concluding that he did not also meet the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have 
they made original contributions but that such contributions have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for 
this criterion based on his published research, citation record, many detailed letters from experts in his 
field, evidence of government-provided research funding, and media reports about his published 
research, among other evidence. The Petitioner maintains that the Director did not appropriately weigh 
all the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
A letter from a professor of neurology at University of 
Diseases, explains that the Petitioner is recognized for successfully modifying the __ assay for "an increasing array of applications, which has in tum led to more and more 
incorporation of this assay into other researchers' work, including in otherl I fields." I I provides several concrete examples of how she and other scientists have relied on and 
recognized the significance of the Petitioner's work. 
For instance, I emphasizes that the Beneficiary's work onl I disease detection was 
highlighted in a 2020 Neurology I noting that the I I authors acknowledged his 
"contributions to thel I an international task force working 
to standardize and reproduce methods for neurotoxicolo y research." The referenced I I 
described the Petitioner's enhancement of the assa as "a major com onent of this 
international effort " as it ' 
In a letter submitted in support of the petition, 
Head of the School of Environment and Science at !university (Australia), 
explains how the Petitioner's study published in th 2020 issue of Movement Disorders and 
featured! "established the 
disease from control samples at early stages of the disease - a very significant outcome." These and 
other letters in the record contain probative details regarding not only the novelty and utility of the 
Petitioner's research, but also specific examples of how it has significantly influenced further 
academic research and clinical investigation of early diagnostic methods for neurological disorders 
and prion diseases in both animals and humans. 
The record further demonstrates that the Petitioner's 2020 Movement Disorders article 
attracted the attention of scientific and mainstream media publications (including 
3 
ScienceDaily, MedScape, Yahoo and MSN) which highlighted both the study's finding that a simple 
skin test can detect biomarkers for I disease, and the implications of this method for early 
detection and treatment of the disease. 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including evidence 
not discussed here, we conclude that the Petitioner has provided sufficient detail to establish the nature 
and significance of his original contributions to his field, and met his burden to demonstrate that he 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi), 
he has met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Accordingly, the totality of the evidence, including evidence not discussed by the Director in his 
decision or herein, must be analyzed in a final merits determination to assess whether it shows that the 
Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim in his field and is one of the small percentage 
of scientists at the top of his field. As the Director's decision did not include a final merits 
determination or any assessment of whether the evidence submitted establishes the Petitioner's 
sustained acclaim, we remand this matter for him to consider the entirety of the record and determine 
whether the Petitioner has established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JULY 29, 2024 In Re: 32384170 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mus1ctan primarily known for playing the trnmpet. He has performed 
internationally with the bandl Iand has appeared on their albums. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to published material, and 
display of the Petitioner's work but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or 
awards, membership, or leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
evidentiary criteria the Director decided against. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude the Director came to the correct conclusion, although we determine the Petitioner is ineligible 
for different reasons. 
We begin addressing two criteria in which we do not agree with the Director's conclusions. First, we 
do not agree that the Petitioner has met the published material criterion. Then, we decide that the 
evidence offered for the awards criterion adequately fulfills the regulatory requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided numerous articles and the Director determined that met this criterion's 
requirements without offering any analysis. A review of the record leads us to a different conclusion 
and we will withdraw the Director's favorable determination under this criterion. 
Out of the several articles the Petitioner provided for the record, only two of them even mention his 
name, but neither is about him. Instead, those two articles are either about the band in which the 
Petitioner was a member or an event where he performed. The first article is titled,! 
2 I 
and it appeared in the publication, El Nacional. This article 
is about the band I I as a whole and the group's receipt of two silver medals in a 
competition. The article simply mentions the Petitioner's name among a list of all the band members. 
USCIS policy does not require that a foreign national and their work be the sole subject within the 
published material. However, it does require that the material "be about the person, relating to the 
person's work in the field, not just about ... another organization and that organization's work. Any 
materials the petitioner submits must demonstrate the value of the person's work and contributions, 
and must not be solely focused on the employer or organization that the person is associated with ...." 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Coverage that is about a broader topic in which the Petitioner is merely mentioned does not 
demonstrate that the published material itself is "about the alien" and "relating to the alien's work in 
the field" as the regulation mandates. See Mussarova v. Garland, 562 F. Supp. 3d 837, 848--49 (C.D. 
Cal. 2022) (finding the published material criterion's requirements are not satisfied where the articles 
are about events in which a foreign national was associated but were not about them); Noroozi v. 
Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (finding that articles that are about a team or a 
competition and only briefly mention a foreign national do not satisfy the published material criterion); 
see also generally Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show or a character within a show are 
not about the performer). As this article is not about the Petitioner, it is unnecessary that we evaluate 
whether it qualifies as one of the required publication types. 
Moving to the second article in which the Petitioner was mentioned, it was titled, _____I and it appeared in the publication Corral de Comedias. This article was about an 
award given to an orchestra where-again-the Petitioner's name is merely listed among other band 
members. For reasons similar to the first article, this one is not about him and related to his work in 
the field. The remaining articles are not about him and do not even mention his name, and we will not 
discuss them further. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's favorable determination as it relates 
to this criterion. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided information relating to a _______ and the Director determined 
that the evidence did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The Director solely focused on 
whether the Petitioner's individual and group award-each as Silver Medal Winners-were issued for 
excellence in the field. The Director did not adequately justify why these awards were not issued for 
excellence in the field and we withdraw their adverse determination on this issue. Because the 
Petitioner demonstrated he was the recipient of an award that received national recognition for 
excellence in the field, we conclude his evidence is sufficient to meet this criterion's requirements. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
We agree with the Director's determination that the evidence in the record is sufficient to fulfill this 
criterion's requirements. 
3 
Documentation ofthe alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both ofthe following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner claims his membership in the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences 
(LARAS). The information from the LARAS website states that the "voting member" classification is 
for "creative or technical professionals" involved in recording music. Prospective voting members are 
required to provide evidence of at least six credits, or songs, released within the last five years. The 
organization further requires that at least 51 percent of the recordings are either in the Spanish or 
Portuguese languages. An additional requirement is proof of physical or digital album distribution. 
Prospective members are encouraged to send in as much information as possible including their 
biographies and any media about them, and LARAS reserves the right of admission and approves 
membership according to the evaluation of the materials submitted. We note the Petitioner did not offer 
the portion of the organization's bylaws that addresses membership types, the application for 
membership, or the academy's processes or standards for granting voting membership. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion because it 
does not require outstanding achievements, rather than volume of publications of music. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that this organization requires outstanding achievements in order to be granted 
membership and, as he stated before the Director, lists their requirements as six released productions 
and at least 12 digital releases on syndicated streaming or online platforms. The Petitioner describes 
these activities as "a feat that most Musicians will go the whole of their career without accomplishing. 
The fact that this is a requirement ofthe association shows that it only admits outstanding members of 
the music industry." However, he did not offer objective evidence to corroborate those assertions. As 
it stands, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Director erred when they determined he failed 
to establish that this organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, and we agree 
with the Director on this point. 
On the final issue that LARAS must utilize nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge 
the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are outstanding, we are 
not persuaded by the Petitioner's circular and presumptive arguments, which follow: 
Furthermore, the ultimate admission ofany member into the Latin Recording Academy 
is fully at the discretion of the academy's voting members. As already discussed, in 
order to be a voting member, an individual must show that they have outstanding 
achievements within the music industry, and thus, in the field. Accordingly, [the 
Petitioner's] membership in LARAS as a Voting Member was determined by experts 
in the field that, themselves, have outstanding achievements and merit. 
4 
We note he did not demonstrate that voting members must show they have outstanding achievements 
within the industry, and he does not offer evidence from LARAS that prospective members' 
achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the entity's 
activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it was leading or critical 
for organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments as a whole. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization, establishment, division, or department 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a unit subordinate to these listed entities. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(8)(1 ). 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. (citing to the 
definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
After considering the Petitioner's claims and evidence, the Director determined that he did not meet 
the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner continues to claim that he performed in a 
leading or critical role for the musical group I I He relies on the letter from the group's 
chief executive officer, as well as a document titled Record Deal Memorandum. 
We begin with Mr. I I letter. Mr.I lsooke highly of the Petitioner and his abilities. He 
indicated the Petitioner's work and performances had been critically important for the band. He noted 
that as the trumpet player of the group, the Petitioner was a fundamental component and an invaluable 
member of the group. He further signified that because the band is based on horned instruments, such 
as the trumpet, the Petitioner is a fundamental part of the backbone of each of their songs, and that the 
rest of the band relies on him to provide a strong melody that holds the song together. 
Mr. I Icontinued stating: "The whole song depends on [ the Petitioner's] ability to maintain 
rhythm and harmony, and without a strong trumpet player and soloist like him, the band will go astray 
and the whole song will fall apart." We note it appears that Mr.I lwas generally describing one 
who occupies the lead trumpet position, but he never stated that outright and the Petitioner does not 
identify what evidence in the record might support that implication. 
Nor does Mr. persuade us how the Petitioner performs in a leading or critical role for the band. 
He claims: 
5 
[The Petitioner] is not only critically important to our performances, but leads 
I I contributing knowledge, experience and concept in many, if not most, of 
the songs that the group performs live to the public. In this way, he plays an 
indisputably essential role for the group to be able to perform the music that the band 
plays live to perfection, as well as being responsible for instructing each member ofthe 
band on how their individual parts fit into the musical production. 
Although Mr. I I indicated the Petitioner "has contributed extremely valuable knowledge to the 
creation of the most successful songs of the band," the record lacks material to corroborate these 
claims. The Petitioner does not identify material demonstrating that he leads the band through his 
contribution of "knowledge, experience, or concept" which might support Mr.I I assertions. 
Correspondence from those with "personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the 
organization, establishment, division, or department was leading or critical." See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l). 
Again, Mr. I I letter does not sufficiently describe the Petitioner's role in such a way. While 
making broad claims about his impact, Mr. I I letter lacks details about the Petitioner's work 
and its effect on the band. Mr.I I does not provide relevant details, such as a significant number 
of performances in which the Petitioner was billed as a leader within the band, or how he was more 
instrumental than other band members, or how his role was more significant to the band than other 
members' activities. The Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate how his role differentiated him 
from the numerous other of the band's performers. 
Moving to the Record Deal Memorandum, it reflected the Petitioner was to serve as "Principal 
Trumpeter" on an unspecified or unnamed album. But the Petitioner did not provide evidence that 
any such album was created, nor by extension did he establish sales figures for the album, both of 
which might add support for his claims under this criterion. And as a final note, we observe that Mr. 
I I did not mention this album when he discussed the Petitioner's role for the organization. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
6 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-A-V-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JULY 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a handball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a handball player with thel !Team Handball Club. Because he has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The 
record reflects that the Petitioner received nationally recognized awards at handball tournaments in 
Russia. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
However, for the reasons discussed later in this decision, we do not concur with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he "was chosen to Olympic reserve," and we have previously recognized 
membership on an Olympic team to meet this criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 1 In the case here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his membership with an Olympic team. 
Although the Petitioner provides a letter from I I for the 
Handball Sports School of Olympic Reserve, she does not confirm his membership with an Olympic 
team. Instead, I I stated that the Petitioner "was chosen to the only national junior handball 
team of Russia (youngsters born in 1994 and earlier for his results," and "he was accepted to the main 
junior team of Russia in the position of the.__ ___ __.' Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish 
that being appointed as an Olympic reserve or alternate, as well as membership with a junior national 
team, is tantamount to membership with an Olympic team. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked the significance of a screenshot posted on the 
website, sobaka.ru. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, 
and author of the material.2 The record reflects that the screenshot, which contains the title, date, and 
author, discusses the Petitioner as a handball player. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
website is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
Specifically, the Petitioner provides documentation showing that Sobaka.ru is both a printed 
publication (Sobaka.ru) and a website (sobaka.ru). Although most of his evidence for this criterion 
on appeal relates to the standing, nature, and history of the magazine, the issue here is whether the 
website is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 3 Moreover, while the 
Petitioner presents a screenshot from sobaka.ru indicating that it receives "about 800 thousand people 
per month," he did not submit independent, objective evidence supporting the website's claims.4 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 The Petitioner did not offer evidence reflecting that the article was published in Sobaka.ru. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self­
serving assertions on the cover a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of major 
media). Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of "800 thousand" visitors per 
month or explain how such information reflects status as a major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of spectfication for which classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
an allied field of specialization. 5 For the reasons outlined below, a review of the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Russian Handball Federation (RHF) confirming that he 
participated as a "referee" at eight handball matches. In addition, he presented "The Book of a Field 
Judge" from the Ministry of Sport of Russian Federation (MSRF) indicating the Petitioner's 
assignment as a "field judge" on four occasions. Moreover, he provided an RHF letter confirming his 
service as part of a 'judging couple" at four handball events. Again, this regulatory criterion requires 
a petitioner to show that he has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
of specialization. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not reflect the duties of a handball referee/judge 
to demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed 
to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Moreover, the record lacks 
other evidence, such as RHF's official competition rules or bylaws for referees and judges, showing 
that serving as a handball "referee," "field judge," or 'judging couple" is consistent with participating 
as a judge of the work of others. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered a letter from MSRF reflecting his appointment to "the post of the 
Breeder of the youth composition of the Handball Federation of thel I region" that will 
"[ e ]nab le the authority to call players to view the team, assign players to tournaments and 
championships of Russia, [and] cancel contracts with players." In order to meet this criterion, a 
petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that he 
actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 6 
Although the MSRF letter indicates his appointment to a post, the Petitioner did not show that he 
actually served in the position. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that his duties listed in the 
letter involved his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfied the regulatory requirements, we withdraw 
the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues that his role as team captain fo~ lfrom 2012 to 2016 fulfills 
this criterion. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a 
leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 7 Accordingly, we agree that the Petitioner performed in a leading role. However, for the 
reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I I has a 
distinguished reputation. 8 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted screenshots of team standings for the Russian 
Handball Super League for four seasons from 2013/2014 to 2016/2017. Out of twelve teams, 
.__ ________ finished .__ __________ __. respectively. Here, the Petitioner did 
not establish how such finishes or standings indicate the team's eminent reputation. Moreover, while 
he provides screenshots regarding regulations for a team's participation in the league, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that membership with the league is tantamount to a distinguished reputation for 
the team. In addition, the Petitioner did not provide documentation, for example, showing the general 
field's view o~ I how its reputation compares to other handball teams, or how its 
successes relate to others, signifying that it enjoys a distinguished reputation consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that his salary is five times higher than the average monthly salary for an 
athlete in Russia. In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or 
remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 9 He provides 
his 2014 income tax documentation reflecting that he earned approximately 160,000 rubles per month. 
In addition, he submits 2018 average monthly wages for "activities in the fields of culture and sport" 
from the Federal Service of State Statistics (FSSS) showing the average monthly wages of 32,312 
rubles. 
Although he likens his salary to the average wages in the general field of culture and sport, the 
Petitioner did not show that he commands a high salary "in relation to others in the field," such as 
other handball players in Russia. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
5 
Matter C?fY-A-V-
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). Furthermore, the salary information from FSSS reflects that average 
wages rather than the high salaries of handball players in Russia. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his personal achievements is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofY-A-V-, ID# 3725113 (AAO July 30, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16965334 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a finance minority business coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed his 
decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met 
that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss her appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and 
legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. At the 
outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of the 
unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). As stated previously, a motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall 
be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's 
motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his decision on motion, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the same 
two evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) as in his previous decision, relating to the 
Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others and her leading role for an organization 
having a distinguished reputation. 
In dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criteria pertaining to judging and leading or critical role. We also addressed the Petitioner's claim that 
she met five additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including the criteria related to 
nationally recognized awards or prizes, memberships in associations that require outstanding 
achievements, published material in major media, original contributions of major significance, and 
2 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration. We concluded that because the Petitioner 
satisfied only two criteria, she did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly determined that the previously submitted evidence 
was insufficient to satisfy the criteria relating to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, membership, and high salary or other remuneration criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) 
and (ix). She does not contest our conclusion that she did not submit evidence to satisfy the criteria 
related to published materials at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and original contributions at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 On motion, the Petitioner 
submits a brief claiming that her award of restricted stock units (RSUs) froml I 
I h as part of the Exceptional Contributor Program (ECP) or Long-Term Incentive Program 
(L TIP) award in 2009, 2011 and 2013 qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized award in 
the field of endeavor. 2 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed her arguments and evidence and explained why 
her claims and documentation did not establish eligibility ofl I RSU awards as nationally or 
internationally recognized awards. We acknowledged the Petitioner's assertion thatl lis a large 
and well-known multinational corporation, and that letters issued byl !officials at the time of the 
award indicate that the Petitioner was "part of a selected group of people who were recognized for 
their valuable contribution to the corporate results" and that the awards are "based on substantial 
contributions well above the expectations of the Company." We determined, however, that the 
Petitioner's arguments and evidence, although confirming that theLJ RSUs were given for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, do not show that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in the fields of finance or minority business coaching. We found that there 
is no record in the evidence ofrecognition of these awards from others in the field of finance. Further, 
we noted that an email from an official of the current.__ _______ ...., confirms that it does not 
have "public announcements, photos or certificates documenting these awards," making it unlikely 
that others in the Petitioner's field recognized or were even aware of thel I RSU awards. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F .2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed elif bility under this criterion based on her receipt of other awards from~(a 
certificate dated November 2010 from I acknowledging the Petitioner as "the reference 
point of the organization for her 'integrity' and 'compliance with standards and policies;"' service pins recognizing the 
Petitioner's employment with the company for 5, 15, 20 and 25 years) and a plaque and letter from the University of I I confirming that she earned the highest grade point average in her graduating class of economics majors in April 
1987. She has not pursued these claims on motion. 
3 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that "RSU awards are extremely well known and recognized by 
others in the financial world" and "are granted to very high-level employees in the most important 
companies that are publicly traded in the different stock exchanges of the world." Although the 
Petitioner provides several websites that it asserts provide "[ d]etailed explanations regarding this type 
of award," these do not mention or demonstrate the national or international recognition of excellence 
in the field of the I IRSU awards. For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 3 On motion, the Petitioner maintains that she satisfies 
this criterion based on her membership in The Venezuelan American Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry (VENAMCHAM).4 In our appellate decision, we discussed the Petitioner's assertion that 
her membership on the Corporate Finance committee of this association qualifies under this criterion, 
and reviewed several documents submitted in support of this criterion. 
Our appellate decision noted that the Petitioner provided a copy of an email from the association 
welcoming her to the Corporate Finance and Capital Market committee, which states that the 
committee's goal is to offer updated information and focuses on gathering company leaders into work 
groups. In addition, a document titled "Rules of the Work and Services Committees" states that 
members of committees should be nominated by the key contact of the VEN AM CHAM enterprise 
member, and that the candidate's curriculum vitae and other documents are sent to the committee 
president for review. Another document, which appears to be from the association's website but does 
not include the webpage address, states that the committees "bring together professional executives of 
different positions," and indicates that the Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee is 
"formed by 103 members that work as General Managers and Finance Directors" for member 
companies. It goes on to state that each member company may appoint up to two executives to 
participate in each committee. An additional document, titled "Requirements and Profile of 
Executives in Order to Join the Committees," repeats the requirements noted above, and adds that the 
member of the Corporate Finance committee should occupy "the highest position of your company" 
in that functional area. 
Based on the documentation submitted we determined that although the membership rules of 
VENAMCHAM's Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee require a candidate to have 
reached a certain level of professional achievement, namely the highest finance position within their 
3 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's 
distinguished achievements in original research) . 
4 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility under this criterir based on her membership in the Controllers of Venezuela 
Group and the Economists Association orl,_ _____ __, She has not pursued these claims on motion. 
4 
company, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that reaching a certain position within a company's 
hierarchy is considered to be an outstanding achievement. Further, we concluded that there is 
insufficient information regarding the requirements of a committee chairman or president to establish 
that such an individual is inherently a nationally or internationally recognized expert within the field 
of finance. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we improperly analyzed the evidence under this criterion and 
utilized novel evidentiary requirements. She argues that "[t]he focus of inquiry on appeal should be 
on VENAMCHAM's membership requirements and processes, and the factors it takes into 
consideration in determining whether the Petitioner has the requisite level of achievement to become 
a member of the organization, rather than whether the position within c=]' s internal company 
hierarchy is considered an outstanding achievement." Here, in determining whether membership in 
VENAMCHAM's Corporate Finance committee requires outstanding achievements we examined its 
membership requirements and found that the Petitioner has not demonstrated they require outstanding 
achievement, but we did not utilize novel evidentiary requirements as the Petitioner suggests. 5 As the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that having reached a certain position within a company's hierarchy 
is an outstanding achievement, as judged by recognized national or international experts within the 
field of finance, the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that we did not reference a letter from VENAMCHAM dated June 29, 
2018, that confirms what the Committees of VENAMCHAM do and the Petitioner's membership in 
VENAMCHAM. While this letter states that the Petitioner was a member of VENAMCHAM's 
Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee from June 2011 to November 2013, it does not 
show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field of finance. 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed the Petitioner's arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish that membership in VENAMCHAM's 
Corporate Finance and Capital Markets committee requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of finance. For the reasons 
discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In our appellate decision, we noted that the documentation submitted under this criterion included 
letters from.__ _____ ____, evidencing the Petitioner's salary and remuneration, a number of 
receipts and other documents relating to non-cash benefits such as a mobile phone and a company car, 
and the Petitioner's Forms DPN-99025, Income Tax Final Statement and Payment for Resident 
Natural Persons and Unvested Inheritances, issued by the government of Venezuela for 2011, 2012, 
and 2013. 
5 USCIS may not utilize novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 758 (9th Cir.2008). 
5 
Regarding the letters from I I we noted that a letter dated April 2011 discussing the 
Petitioner's salary and benefits indicates that her "total annual fixed remuneration" as of May 1 was 
Bs. 660,705.20, and that she would receive a variable performance-based bonus of anywhere between 
0-50% of her "annual base salary." In addition, the letter stated that her "non-cash benefits" included 
a company car, along with maintenance and repair expenses; health, auto and life insurance; a mobile 
phone, and a pension plan. A letter dated June 18, 2018, states that at the time of her departure from 
the company in 2013, she was earning a "basic monthly salary" ofBs. 71,271.00, and an annual salary 
at the rate of Bs. 1,313,524.53. The Petitioner also submitted a number of receipts and other 
documents relating to "non-cash benefits," and asserted that when considered together, her total 
remuneration in 2013 was the equivalent of $336,165.64. 
In examining the above evidence, we noted that the Petitioner's Forms DPN-99025 indicate that in 
2011, 2012, and 2013 the Petitioner earned "Salary, Wages & Other Similar Income" of 
Bs. 308,675.84, Bs. 405,144.00 and Bs. 475,768.00, respectively. We found that the Petitioner does 
not explain, or provide evidence sufficient to show, why these figures differ substantially from those 
in the letters from her employer. In addition, we noted that the employer letter regarding the 
Petitioner's 2013 salary does not explain the difference between the basic monthly rate, which when 
annualized is equivalent to Bs. 855,252, and the annual salary rate ofBs. 1,313,524.53. We determined 
that the Petitioner also does not explain whether the "total annual fixed remuneration" figure shown 
in the 2011 employer letter is an annualized basic monthly rate or equivalent to the annual salary figure 
listed in the 2018 letter. Further, neither letter explains whether the benefits listed in the 2011 letter 
( and presumably carried over to the same position in 2013) were already figured into the annual figures 
given in both letters. 
For the purpose of comparison of her salary and total remuneration to that of others in her field, the 
Petitioner provided a survey conducted by VENAMCHAM in May 2013, partial results of which are 
included in and summarized by a slide presentation from "the PGA Group" and an article in a 
magazine called Business Venezuela. 6 We noted that the slides indicate that 187 companies were 
surveyed, and the results were grouped by five position levels, three company sizes, and eight 
functional areas. We found that the article differentiates between basic monthly salary and total annual 
salary or compensation, which includes commissions, bonuses and other performance-based 
incentives, as well as benefits such as "direct payments, company profit sharing, paid vacations and 
other sundry variable payments." We noted that the article also states that Venezuelan workers 
essentially receive "around 19 or 20 (monthly) salaries per year," which appears to account for the 
difference in the monthly versus annual amounts stated in the article as well as the Petitioner's 2013 
employer letter, and we found that the ratio of her stated salary to her total compensation is close to 
the expected ratio indicated in the article. We also noted that the article does not specifically indicate 
whether other benefits received by the Petitioner such as a company car and insurance premiums are 
typically received by directors. We concluded that, based on the ambiguity in both the employer letters 
and the data provided in the VENAMCHAM survey, we considered the annual salary listed in the 
2013 letter in the amount of Bs. 1,313,524.53 to represent the Petitioner's total remuneration for 
purposes of comparison to the survey data, and not consider the values suggested by the receipts 
6 The Petitioner previously claimed that salary surveys from a number of additional sources, including a company called 
Mercer, the websites glassdoor.com and payscale.com, and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook 
Handbook, established her eligibility under this criterion. She has not addressed these sources on motion. 
6 
relating to non-cash benefits. 
We found that the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the value of some of the services shown 
by the receipts was received by her, as the receipts for car maintenance and mobile phone services are 
not in her name. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that under Venezuelan tax law, the value of 
benefits such as repairs and maintenance to company vehicles, mobile phone services, and insurance 
premiums are considered as part of an individual's total compensation, or how the value of those 
benefits is calculated. Further, regarding the RSUs awarded to the Petitioner based upon her 
performance, we stated that a fact sheet regarding the award program notes that in most countries, "the 
value ofRSUs at vesting is reportable as taxable income," and the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
the value of her vested RSUs should be considered in addition to the values reported in her tax returns 
or in the letters froni I We again noted that there is a large difference between the 
salary and wages reported on the Petitioner's income tax forms and those stated in the letters from her 
employer, and this difference has not been explained. 
In comparing the Petitioner's total remuneration to the survey data, we found that the Petitioner has 
not met the requirements of this criterion. 7 We determined the relevant data from this survey indicates 
that directors, identified as those executives below the chairman or general manager level but above 
the managerial level, in large companies such as I I earned an average total 
compensation of Bs. 948,000 in 2013. In comparison, the Petitioner's total compensation rate8 in 
2013 was Bs. 1,313,524.53, or approximately 138% of the average. We noted, however, that the 
survey data does not provide a range of salary and total compensation figures from low to high, and 
therefore does not provide a complete picture of the compensation received by others in the 
Petitioner's field. While her total remuneration was above the average in relation to others in her field, 
she has not established that it was "significantly high" as required by the plain language of this 
criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that "the total annual remuneration of the Petitioner must be 
considered as per thel I letter" to include "the RSUs plus the car benefit (use of a car plus 
maintenance) and use of a mobile phone." She claims that for 2013 her total annual remuneration was 
Bs. 2,265,066.05 (the equivalent of $359,534.17), which included "sub-total" annual remuneration of 
Bs. 1,313,524.53, "car and mobile benefit" of Bs. 511,691.72, and RSUs of Bs. 439,850.25. The 
Petitioner asserts that, pursuant to Venezuelan labor law, the RSUs, car allowance, and mobile phone 
benefits "were treated as non-taxable" but must be "included as part of her total annual remuneration." 
However, she has not shown, as explained in our previous decision, that under Venezuelan tax law, 
the value of benefits such as repairs and maintenance to company vehicles and mobile phone services 
are considered as part of an individual's total compensation, how they are calculated, or why the value 
7 We noted that average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different 
responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. Rather, a petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings 
of those in his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson 
v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
8 We considered the rate at which she was paid in 2013, as the Petitioner states that she left.__ ______ __,at some 
point in that year after the company was acquired. 
7 
of her vested RS Us should be considered in addition to the values reported in her tax returns or in the 
letters from.__ ______ _. In addition, although the Petitioner acknowledges our concerns 
regarding the fact that the receipts for car maintenance and mobile phone services are not in her name, 
she does not address these concerns and, therefore, has not established that the value of those services 
was received by her. 
Moreover, on motion, the Petitioner maintains that according to the VENAMCHAM survey her total 
annual remuneration in 2013 is a significantly high salary when compared to the average total 
compensation ofBs. 948,000 in 2013 earned by directors in large companies such asl I 
The Petitioner, however, does not address our conclusion that the survey data does not provide a range 
of salary and total compensation figures from low to high and therefore does not provide a complete 
picture of the compensation received by others in the Petitioner's field. Although the VENAMCHAM 
survey data indicated her total remuneration was above the average in relation to others in her field, 
she has not established that it was "significantly high" as required by the plain language of this 
criterion. 
In our appellate decision, we specifically addressed the Petitioner's arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish that she has commanded a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. For the reasons 
discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim on motion that the Director misapplied Kazarian, 596 
F. 3d at 1119-20 and, instead, should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 
1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994). According to the Petitioner, this case held that the burden shifts to USCIS 
once it determines that the evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria listed in the regulation. 
Because we have already concluded that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the 
law or USCIS policy in concluding that she did not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we reserve this issue. 9 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). We also note that, in contrast to the broad 
precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court we are not bound to follow the published decision of 
a United States district court in matters arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). 
Although the reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration, the analysis does not have 
to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17586783 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: WL. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral associate in the computational chemistry field, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies the initial evidence requirements 
and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher in the field of computational chemistry and was employed as a 
postdoctoral associate in the Department of Chemistry atc=]University at the time this petition was 
filed. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he can satisfy three of these 
criteria. The Director determined that he met two, specifically the criteria related to judging the work 
of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied these two criteria. The record 
reflects that he has peer reviewed manuscripts for professional publications including Journal of 
Molecular Modeling and Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling and therefore satisfied the 
judging criterion. In addition, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly 
articles published in various journals, including Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 
Chemical Reviews, Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, and Journal of Physical 
Chemistry B. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the third claimed criterion, relating to original 
contributions of major significance in his field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that the Director's decision contains "almost no discussion of the particular evidence 
submitted" in support of this criterion, noting that much of the analysis was directly copied from the 
request for evidence issued prior to the denial of the petition. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that 
he has met this criterion through citation of his published research in molecular modeling and 
contributions to a widely used software program in his field. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion 
that the Director's decision did not adequately address certain evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml ] thel lin Organic 
Chemistry at University ot1 11 I discusses the Petitioner's development 
of al ~ software program, the results of which 
he published in Journal of Chemical Information and Model1n: in 2) 16. I I discusses in detail 
why the Petitioner's I I program, the first developed in is recognized as having superior 
functionality and efficacy compared to previous programs of its type, noting that it "supports extensive 
I I force fields as well as I I ions." He explains that the Petitioner's program has 
been released as part of the ] I molecular dynamics software package since 2015, emphasizing 
that "[g]iven that thel I software package is a widely used tool in molecular dynamics research, 
it is clear that [ the Petitioner's] enhancements to this software serve to accelerate research in the field." 
I I also emphasizes that the Petitioner's published article on thel f program has received 
a significant number of citations and emphasizes the Petitioner has been invited to write a book chapter 
on the program "for a project in which the editors 'aim to selectively review some of the most 
influential advances' in the field." Finally, he explains how his own research team and others have 
used the Petitioner'~'------'~ program in studies that have advanced! I engineering techniques. 
The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner has been listed as an author of the I I 
software package since 2015, additional background information abou~and how it is used to 
advance research in several fields, and a letter fro~ lo niversity'~ 
for Quantitative Biomedicine, who is a primary author of the software. explains thaL___J 
is widely used in the field of computational chemistry and he echoe s statement that the 
Petitioner, "[b ]y facilitating the simulation o~ lions, ... has vastly expanded the applications and 
utility of this software package." 
The Petitioner's Google Scholar citation history submitted at the time of filing reflects that 
approximately two-thirds of his cumulative citations related to his publication on thel I 
program and to thel I software package that incorporated that program. The evidence in the 
record, including the evidence discussed above, is sufficient to demonstrate the nature and significance 
of the Petitioner's contributions to a widely used molecular dynamics modeling software in his field. 
Accordingly, we conclude that he established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v) and meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that he satisfies three criteria and meets the initial evidence requirement, 
we will evaluate below whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
3 
the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor of science in chemistry from~I --~ 
University in China in 2011 and earned his doctorate degree in chemistry atl !University 
in 2016. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner has worked as a graduate research assistant 
at both! I and the University ofl I and as a visiting graduate scholar atl I 
University. After completing his Ph.D., the Petitioner worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the 
University o~ lbefore joiningD University's Department of Chemistry 
as a postdoctoral associate in January 2018. He remained in that position, in F-1 nonimmigrant student 
status, at the time he filed this petition in July 2019. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field through the peer review 
process, has made contributions to his field, and has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications. However, the record does not demonstrate that his achievements to date are reflective of 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress at H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990), or the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute requires. 
As it relates to his experience judging the work of others in his field, the Petitioner provided evidence 
that he has peer reviewed at least 50 manuscripts for 14 different journals in his field since 2015.1 
Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
sustained national or international acclaim. An evaluation of the significance of the Petitioner's peer 
review experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 
The Petitioner argues that the frequency with which he has peer reviewed articles, and the reputation 
and rankings of the journals that invited him to serve as a peer reviewer, support a determination that 
he is at the top of his field of endeavor. Specifically, he maintains that his "standing as a leading 
expert is clear from his 50 reviews for many prestigious journals." In addition, he has asserted that 
"only top-level experts in their field are invited to perform this important review work, so this frequent 
review activity further demonstrates [his] important standing the field." The Petitioner provided 
journal rankings from Google Scholar indicating that many of the journals for which he has served as 
a peer reviewer are ranked in the top ten in their respective subject matter sub-categories in terms of 
their "h-5 index," a measure related to the journals' respective impact factors. 
However, the record does not contain sufficient support for his claim that only "top-level experts" are 
typically invited to participate in the peer review process for scientific journals. The Petitioner did 
not, for example, provide evidence that the specific journals that invited him to serve as a peer reviewer 
reserve those invitations for researchers who are recognized as being at the very top of the field or 
otherwise enjoy standing in the field consistent with sustained national or international acclaim.c=J 
~---_..,,.who served as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor atl !University, provided a 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner had completed 16 reviews for Journal of Molecular Modeling. 13 reviews for 
Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, and one or two reviews for most of other 12 journals that have invited 
him to review manuscripts. 
4 
letter in which he mentions that the Petitioner is an "active peer reviewer" for a number of leading 
journals, noting that "peer review service is a critical component of the academic research process" 
and that "only verified experts are entrusted with such a duty."I lasserts that the Petitioner's 
"frequent peer review service confirms his overall expertise" and his standing as a "valuable 
researcher" in their shared field. 
We do not question! ~ s opinion that the Petitioner's activities as a peer reviewer demonstrate 
his acknowledged expertise in chemistry, particularly in computational chemistry and molecular 
modeling, and his stature as a valued and active researcher in this field. At issue here is the extent to 
which the Petitioner's peer review activities have required, reflected, or resulted in his national or 
international acclaim. As noted, the Petitioner did not establish the various journals' requirements for 
selection of peer reviewers, and therefore we are unable to evaluate his peer review activities in light 
of those requirements. For example, reviewing manuscripts for journals that select peer reviewers 
based on subject matter expertise would not provide strong support for the petition, because possessing 
expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than enjoying sustained acclaim in the field. 
Therefore, although the record shows that the Petitioner has reviewed numerous manuscripts for 
reputable journals, it does not demonstrate how his peer review activity compares to or differentiates 
him from his peers in the field. Similarly, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has received any independent acclaim or recognition for his service as a peer reviewer. 
Without this or other evidence differentiating him from others in his field, the Petitioner has not 
established how his peer review experience contributes to establishing his sustained national or 
international acclaim or how it places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to his authorship of scholarly articles, the Petitioner emphasized that his work has resulted 
in "15 peer-reviewed articles and 5 published software packages," and "has been published in some 
of the most prestigious high impact journals in his field." He acknowledges that "publication is a 
relatively common activity for researchers and thus is not necessarily indicative of one's extraordinary 
ability." However, he asserts that he has consistently published in "top-ranked journals" and 
highlights the ranking and impact factor of seven of the journals that have published his work, 
including Chemical Reviews and Journal of the American Chemical Society. The Petitioner 
emphasizes that this record of publication establishes that "his work has been recognized as some of 
the best in the field," noting that publication in such journals is "a rare accomplishment achieved by 
only the best researchers in the field." 
A high ranking or impact factor reflects a publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, 
show the influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has had an 
impact within the field. Further, the evidence in the record does not establish that publication in a 
journal with a high impact factor alone demonstrates that an individual researcher has achieved wide 
recognition consistent with national or international acclaim. The Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
support for his claim that publication in highly ranked journals is an accomplishment only achieved 
by those at the very top of the field, or one which automatically elevates a researcher to the top of the 
field. 
5 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. 
Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d 
at 1122. Here, the Petitioner has consistently emphasized that his research productivity and the 
individual and collective citations to his work, according to several metrics and statistics, 
"quantitatively place [him] at the very top of his field of endeavor." 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted his Google Scholar profile indicating that his most-cited 
research article, published in 2013, had 230 citations. This was followed by articles published in 2017, 
2016 and 2015 that had received 104, 74 and 69 citations, respectively.2 The Petitioner maintains that 
a number of his individual publications have been cited "at a much higher rate than those of other 
researchers in the field." The Petitioner submitted an "InCites Essential Science Indicators" chart 
published by Clarivate Analytics in 2019. This evidence shows "baseline" citation rates in a small 
number of broad fields for the years 2008 through 2018, as well citation figures by percentile for the 
same fields and years. The Petitioner emphasizes that based on this data, he has four published papers 
with citations that fall within the top 10 percent, two in the top 1 percent, and one in the top 0 .1 percent. 
He states that his article citation rates for these seven papers are "between 3 and 29 times higher than 
the average number of citations in the [chemistry] field for their respective publication years, clearly 
distinguishing him from other researchers in the field." 
This evidence demonstrates that several of the Petitioner's individual articles have been cited at a rate 
that is above average in his field, and in some cases, well above the average rate. The comparative 
ranking of his individual papers to baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically 
establish that he is widely recognized as being among the small percentage of researchers at the top of 
his field. 3 The Petitioner has not demonstrated how citation to his publications, individually or 
collectively, compares to scientists who enjoy sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner also presented a document regarding his citation count percentiles and paper count 
percentiles which appears to have been self-compiled using "Microsoft Academic" as the data source. 
The Petitioner states that this data compares his research impact to that of other researchers in the 
broad fields of biology, chemistry, and computer science, and maintains that this evidence 
demonstrates that he is "in the top 1.42% in terms of research productivity" compared to other 
researchers in these fields, and "in the top 0.14% in terms of overall citation impact."4 While the 
2 The Petitioner's most cited work according to Google Scholar was the software package I t which 
accounted for 1049 ( over 58 percent) of his 1797 citations at the time of filing. Overall, 62 percent of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations were to different releases of th~I I software package, for which he was credited as one of 
dozens of contributors. 
3 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, chemistry papers published in 2017 that received only 11 
citations were in the top 10%, and only 3 citations were needed to reach this threshold for papers published in 2018. A 
supporting explanation regarding the reported citation rates indicates that "[t]he citation rate in any single year can serve 
as a baseline to assess the impact of a paper in the same research field published in that year." The publisher does not 
claim that such percentile figures are intended to provide information regarding a given author's standing in a particular 
field. 
4 The document he provided indicated that the model used to obtain these figures included over 29 million authors and 
over 20 million publications published between 2011 and 2019, but there is no further explanation for how these percentiles 
were derived. 
6 
Petitioner provides documentation corroborating the values, he does not submit evidence 
demonstrating how these metrics were calculated or how these percentiles reflect his sustained national 
or international acclaim in the field of computational chemistry. 
In addition to the various metrics discussed above, the Petitioner provided the Google Scholar profiles 
of "12 other extraordinary researchers" in his field. He emphasized that he has accrued more total 
citations than each of these scientists "all of whom conduct research at top-tier institutions in his field." 
The submitted profiles were those of assistant and associate professors in chemistry (mainly at public 
and private U.S. universities) who had accrued total citations to their published work that ranged from 
243 to 2095 citations. 5 The evidence objectively shows that the Petitioner had accumulated more 
cumulative citations than each of the 12 researchers that he specifically selected as a basis for 
comparison. However, while the Petitioner submitted copies of these individuals' resumes or 
biographical pages from their universities' websites, he did not explain how this evidence supports a 
determination that any of them enjoy recognition as "extraordinary researchers" or leading scientists 
at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner's citation evidence indicates that he has been a productive researcher during his career 
thus far, and that other researchers in the field have noticed his work by citing to his publications and 
using thel lsoftware package that incorporates hid !program. However, he did not 
show that the citations to his research and software represent attention at a level consistent with being 
among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The statute demands 
"extensive documentation" of recognition. Despite his reliance on various metrics and data relating 
to citation rates, the Petitioner did not, for instance, compare his citations to others in his field of 
endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. We have taken the Petitioner's 
publication and citation record into consideration, but he cannot rely primarily on that record to 
mathematically place himself at the top of the field without other persuasive evidence of his sustained 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided examples of eight "notable independent citations" to his work and 
asserted that such citations distinguish him "as one of the top contributors" to his field of study. A 
study published by Khavana et al. in Journal of Molecular Liquids states that "[t]he parameters of the 
metal cations were obtained from the report of Li et al.," citing to the Petitioner's 2013 Journal of 
Chemical Theory and Computation article. An article published by Turner et al. in the Journal of 
Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics states that "metal parameters were obtained using the MCPB.py 
program," citing to the Petitioner's 2016 Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling article. Other 
articles submitted as examples of "notable citations" reference this 2016 article in a similar fashion. 
The Petitioner maintains that such citations show that his work has been singled out for special 
attention, but he has not established how mentions of this kind translate into sustained national or 
international acclaim. With the exception of a Biochemistry article in which the authors state that they 
based their molecular dynamics simulation models on "pioneering work" by the Petitioner, the articles 
generally discuss the dozens of cited source articles in similar terms; there is no special emphasis on 
his work. The submitted articles acknowledge the Petitioner's research contributions to the 
5 At the time the Petitioner submitted this evidence in November 2019, he had received 2124 cumulative citations to his 
articles and software packages. 
7 
advancement of what appears to be an active field of research but are not indications that he has been 
recognized by the field as one of the small percentage ofresearchers at the very top. 
As discussed above, we have acknowlrged thl significance of the Petitioner's contribution of the I !program to the widely used software package. The submitted evidence reflects 
that he was one of 3 9 contributors to the codes for the 2015 release and establishes that hid I 
program represented an important advance to the software package's capabilities and utility. 
However, it does not establish the level or scope of individual recognition or acclaim he has received 
as a result of this contribution, and the record does not support a determination that credited 
contributions to this software package are sufficient to elevate a researcher to the top of the field. The 
Petitioner indicates in the "professional services" section of his curriculum vitae that he "serves the 
I I mailing list and is consulted about issues related to metal ion modeling," and the record 
contains email correspondence confirming that he is consulted by other scientists in this capacity. The 
Petitioner's curriculum vitae also shows that he has delivered updates and other oral presentations at 
several annuall I developer meetings, but he does not claim to have received widespread 
sustained individual recognition within the broader field based on his participation at these 
conferences. 
We have also reviewed four recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's research and other 
achievements. Letters of this kind can help to explain the nature and impact of the Petitioner's 
contributions and, as noted, we have weighed this evidence in determining that the Petitioner has made 
significant contributions to the computational chemistry field. However, such letters should be supported 
with sufficient corroborating documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner is recognized as being 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has garnered the 
required sustained national and international acclaim for his achievements. 
In his letter.._] __ ___.I describes the Petitioner's research contributions and the benefits those contributions 
provide to the field. As noted, he also asserts that the Petitioner's "peer review service confirms his 
overall expertise," and that the combination of his credentials, research, and peer review service "confirm 
him to be a uniquely valuable researcher."! I states that his own reliance on the Petitioner's 
research "affirms that he is a respected and valued member of the field" and he further concludes that the 
Petitioner is "a renowned scholar whose work is vital to continued progress in chemistry." While both of 
these letters offer praise for the Petitioner's research achievements to date, they do not offer sufficient 
support for a conclusion that he has garnered sustained acclaim and that he is currently recognized as 
being among the small percentage ofresearchers at the top of his field . 
.__ _______ __, an associate professor of chemistry at the University ofl I attests to the 
"quality and importance of [the Petitioner's] ongoing research in chemical modeling techniques." She 
emphasizes that the Petitioner's works "have accrued over 1500 citations, a remarkable quantity affirming 
that he is at the very top of his field,'~does not elaborate on her basis for drawing this conclusion. 
I ., I a professor atl___J University in Sweden, discusses the Petitioner's citation 
history in somewhat different terms, noting only that his record "exceeds the usual standards for a 
chemist" and indicates that he is "a highly influential researcher overall." For the reasons already 
discussed, the Petitioner's citation history alone is insufficient to establish his eligibility for this 
classification. Whil~ I and I I also discuss the importance and influence of the 
Petitioner's work in their shared field, and the benefits that may be derived from such work, they do not 
8 
offer additional explanation for how the Petitioner's achievements as a postdoctoral researcher to date 
have earned him recognition that places him at the top of that field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. He seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The record reflects that the Petitioner, although still 
quite early in his postdoctoral career, has made significant research findings and contributions that 
advance his field. The evidence related to his scholarly articles, citation rates and peer review service 
reflects that he has been recognized for his contributions and expertise in his field, but falls short of 
establishing that he satisfied all requirements for this classification at the time of filing. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 30, 2024 In Re: 31282943 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney and managing partner at a Brazilian law firm, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
In the latest decision, the Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that 
although the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not 
show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 1 The matter is again before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 The Director denied the petition and dismissed the Petitioner 's subsequent motion to reconsider, concluding that the 
record established that the Petitioner had satisfied only two often initial evidentiary criteria, ofwhich he must meet at least 
three. The matter came before us on appeal from the dismissal of the motion, and we determined that the Petitioner met a 
third initial criterion. We, therefore, withdrew the Director's decision and remanded the matter for the Director to render 
a final merits determination in keeping with the framework set forth in Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling the required number ofcriteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits detennination). 
I acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that since 1989 he has been an attorney, founder, and managing 
partner at the 
Brazilian law firm ____________________ where he specializes in 
transnational corporate law involving complex transactions in the areas of commercial, tax, and labor 
law. He received his Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from the ____________ 
I in 1996. During his employment with EBA, the record shows that he also served as 
Judge of the (2004-2005) and Judge of the _____ 
___(2006-2008), and he also claims to have worked as a law professor. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In her latest decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met 
three of those criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record reflects that 
the Petitioner satisfies these three evidentiary criteria. The documentation submitted indicates that the 
Petitioner authored scholarly works in professional publications, satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record also shows he served as a member of multiple Ph.D. dissertation 
2 
committees that made the final judgment as to whether an individual candidate's body ofwork, within 
an allied field of specialization for which classification is sought, satisfied the requirements for a 
doctoral degree in Law, thus satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 2 Further, the record 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has held leading or critical roles with his current employer, and 
includes evidence of the company's distinguished reputation in its field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criteria related 
to awards for excellence, published material about him, original contributions of major significance, 
and significantly high remuneration, and asserts the Director did not consider the totality of the 
evidence in the record in making her determination. Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence submitted in 
support of those criteria, in the context of the final merits determination below. 3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 4 
In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner judged the work of others within his field, authored scholarly works, and performed in a 
leading critical role. We have also considered evidence related to awards he received for his work 
at published material that mentions him, his contributions to the field, and his salary and 
remuneration package with The record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements 
are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it pertains to his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
2 For example, the record indicates that the Petitioner served on a panel that evaluated Ph.D. candidates' thesis topics such 
as "The Import Tax Incidence Matrix Rule," "Participative Tax Law: Administrative Transaction and Arbitration of Tax 
Obligation," and "Typicity, Antijuridicity and Culpability in Tax Violations," and demonstrates that the work he judged 
in these instances falls within an allied field of specialization for which classification is sought. 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing that objectively meeting the 
regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
4 Id. at F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in 
its entirety to dete1mine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of 
expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
I highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that he served as a reviewer on a panel judging Ph.D. theses at I I most 
recently in 2010. The record also shows he served as Judge ofthe 
(2004-2005) and Judge of the (2006-2008). However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that his judging experience places him among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
his judging occurrences contribute to a finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for 
instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his work as a thesis reviewer or tax 
judge. The Petitioner did not establish that his work as a Ph.D. thesis reviewer or tax judge resulted 
in or reflects his sustained international acclaim in the field, was recognized outside of those 
organizations, or places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the publication of research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 6 Here, 
although the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored two law books and a law book 
chapter between 199 5 and 2005, he has not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with 
having a "career of acclaimed work" or qualifies for this "very high standard." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. In addition, he did not establish that his authorship of three published 
materials is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not show that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim as his most recent published material, a book chapter, was last published in 2005. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence ofthe influence ofhis publications can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have been 
influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the influence ofhis published 
work is evidenced by a letter he initially submitted from Justice Justice of 
the land founder oftheI Justice 
I asserted the Petitioner's book I I(IOB 2003), "has 
introduced a new legal classification involving the taxation of electronic commercial transactions, 
which provoked widespread commentary among legal scholars, and has been cited extensively as an 
authoritative source in academic discussions as well as in legal cases." 
The Petitioner, however, has not provided corroborating evidence that any ofhis authored works were 
used as a reference or established his works have been "widely" cited or utilized, and therefore, 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated 
to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual. supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine 
whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the ve1y top of the field of endeavor 
and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show the 
application of his written work by the field and that it represents attention at a level consistent with 
being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, 
for instance, did not compare his authored works to others in his field of endeavor that are recognized 
as already being at the top in his field. 
Next, the record reflects that the Petitioner performed in a leading role in his current position as a 
managing partner fore=] since 1989. However, the Director found that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that his employment in this role is reflective of, or has resulted in, widespread acclaim 
from his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). On appeal, the Petitioner highlights the above letter from Justice I I and a letter 
from I vice president of the board of legal and legislative affairs of the I I 
I I 
With regard to his previous employment with other entities, Justice I I letter indicates that based 
upon the Petitioner's "stature as a leader in his field" he was appointed to serve as the first coordinator 
of the Post-Graduate and Extension courses of _________ ___,between 2011 and 2014. 
Mr. I Iindicates that I Isupported the Petitioner's appointment to serve as Judge of the 
(2004-2005) and Judge of the ___________ 
(2006-2008). Neither Justice I I nor Mr. I I however, addresses how the Petitioner's 
positions were leading or critical to these organizations, nor did they provide details of how the 
Petitioner achieved national or international acclaim based on these positions. Apart from these letters, 
the record lacks other independent evidence, such as news articles or other relevant materials, 
demonstrating that the field has widely recognized the Petitioner's roles or contributions to his 
employers in a manner that evidences a "career of acclaimed work." The evidence does not show that 
his roles and achievements at these organizations are at a level that places him among "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to awards, the record reflects that the Petitioner and were recognized by Corporate 
INTL Magazine with a 20201 IAward for __________________ 
I I The evidence demonstrates that nominations are received from the readership of Corporate 
INTL Magazine, "all of which are either investors in business, leaders of companies or advisers of 
those businesses on a global level," and "other sources including our database[ s ]," and are made based 
upon "key work they have carried out for/with the person making the nomination over the past 12 
months." In addition, the record shows that Petitioner's firm was ranked among the topl I 
law firms from 2008 to 2015 by Analise Advocacia 500 legal profession yearbook. However, the 
record does not fully explain, or present sufficient evidence, regarding the selection processes for 
either award that would support the Petitioner's claim that they should be considered nationally or 
internationally recognized awards in the field, such as the number of competitors in the Petitioner's 
5 
_______________ __ category, or evidence of how colleagues select their top law firms, or evidence of the level of 
recognition associated with the awards. 7 Therefore, the documentation submitted does not provide 
sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, 
to show that the Petitioner's receipt of the awards established or contributed to his sustained national 
or international acclaim in the field. 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner provided copies of five articles. Two of those articles, 
published in the print version of the Brazilian publication Valor in 2006 and 2009, do not identify an 
author of the material. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The remaining articles were not about the Petitioner relating to his work 
but were about recent trends in the field. For example, a 2016 article from Bloombergnews.com about 
Brazilian investors having bid up stocks in anticipation of the country's recovery from recession, 
quotes the Petitioner, among several financial advisors, who opines that _ 
I A 2015 Washington Post article titled I 
I quotes the Petitioner who states, I 
I The Petitioner also provided a 2003 article from Valor which quotes 
him as confirming the ouster of t_h_e_fi_rm__of __________ from the legal consulting field 
and his firm's acquisition ofl ______ 
Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that three articles, published in 2003, 2015, and 2016, are 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner also did not show that his overall 
press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" or a "very high standard ... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Further, the Petitioner provided expert letters from several individuals in the Petitioner's field. 8 In 
general, the letters summarize the Petitioner's professional accomplishments and work history. The 
letters, however, do not explain how the Petitioner's achievements have been considered by the field 
to be of major significance. Moreover, they do not contain detailed information showing the unusual 
influence or high impact his contributions have had on the overall field. For instance, in his letter, 
Justice! Iprovides that in 2013 the Petitioner successfully argued a case before the which 
resulted in a portion of a 1994 law being declared unconstitutional that had required the Petitioner's 
Although Justice I Iasserts that the Petitioner "exercised significant influence in the 
Brazilian legal field" because the holding in the case applies "to all 26 Brazilian States and the Federal 
District," he does not address, for example, whether references to that case are indicative of its 
significant impact in the field, nor does his letter sufficiently support the assertion that the Petitioner 
7 For instance, according to the 2008 edition of its yearbook, Analise Advocacia 500 collected the names ofthe 1,263 most 
admired law firms according to the legal departments of the largest companies in Brazil. 
8 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
I is considered among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or how he has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml Ia labor law attorney. We note that 
Mr. I lletter is not on letterhead and does not include an address, a telephone number, or any 
other information through which he can be contacted, thus reducing its probative value. Mr.I 
states that the Petitioner in his law firm was "responsible for the conception and successful 
implementation of a highly innovative model for the large scale management oflawsuits across Brazil 
called He asserts that the Petitioner's model "was absorbed 
by software and legal technology companies, and today became the standard model used by law firms, 
companies and government (Judiciary Power and Executive Power)." He described the model as "the 
most revolutionary development involving large-scale case management in the Brazilian legal 
industry" which "has significantly influenced the Brazilian legal market for the past 20 years." 
However, the record does not contain any other evidence related to this model or the Petitioner's role 
in its development. As a result, we are unable to determine, for example, when the model was 
introduced, whether the model was regarded as novel or original at the time ofits introduction, whether 
or how it impacted the field ofcomplex case management, or whether and to what extent the Petitioner 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim or recognition as a result of his work on its 
development. 
The Petitioner also did not establish, as he asserts, that the above awards from C01porate INTL 
Magazine and the Analise Advocacia 500 legal profession yearbook were indicative of original 
business contributions of major significance in the overall field, for example, that they were awarded 
based on a determination that his contributions made a significant impact on the field; nor do they 
demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or that he 
has sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also claims that his extraordinary ability is reflected in his annual compensation 
package. The record reflects that he received total compensation of R$10,713,428 in 2015 (taxable 
income of R$55,965 and non-taxable, profit-sharing income of R$ l 0,657,463.) The Petitioner 
provided salary data for attorneys in Brazil from Salaryexplorer.com and Payscale.com. The Director 
found insufficient evidence to establish that he earns a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to other managing partners. While the Petitioner argues that his total 
compensation is considerably higher that the figures reported for attorneys by the above resources, the 
Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence that would allow a comparison between his total 
remuneration and that of other similarly employed workers in his geographic area. Therefore, the 
evidence does not establish that he receives total remuneration that is "significantly high" or that his 
earnings are comparable to those of individuals at the very top of the field. 
Considering the totality of the evidence and the Petitioner's arguments on appeal, we conclude that 
the record, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) ( finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated 
reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUL. 31, 2024 In Re: 31507540 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a practitioner of Shaolin kungfu, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Shaolin kungfu practitioner and instructor at the II a school he founded in China, as well as the founder ofthe 
which studies an ancient and specialized form of kungfu. The Petitioner also co-founded the 
___________ an international association promoting the continued teachings of 
Xinyiba wushu, or kungfu, throughout the world. The Petitioner intends to continue his work and to 
found schools to teach this form of kungfu in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria he claimed to have satisfied: 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media and 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv). The 
record supports that determination. However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish 
that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v) and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets these criteria, and he contends that the Director erred in evaluating the submitted 
evidence. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Documentation of the individuals membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in the International Wushu Association, which 
operates in cooperation with the Wushu Administrative Center of the General Administration of Sport 
of China, the government agency responsible for sports in mainland China. The association also 
operates under the provisions of the Olympic Charter. The association assigns ranks to wushu 
practitioners based on expertise. In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
had not provided the association's membership requirements, stating the following: 
The evidence submitted does not demonstrate that the association requires outstanding 
achievements as an essential condition of their members for admission as judged by 
2 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. Furthermore, 
the evidence indicates that there are dues/fees. 
Upon review of the record, we disagree with the Director's determination. The submitted evidence 
reflects that the Petitioner is a member of the standing committee within the International Wushu 
Association requiring outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. The provided evidence does not indicate that this level of 
membership in the association requires the payment of dues or fees to obtain or retain membership. 
The Petitioner initially submitted membership applications describing requirements on which the 
applicants would be assessed and information about the reviewing panel, including career descriptions 
and credentials as evidence of their expertise in the field of kungfu. The Petitioner also submitted 
evidence showing his membership rank is eighth within the Chinese Wushu Dan (Duan) Level System, 
which equates the seventh, eighth, and ninth dans as senior levels. The application for membership 
also lists requirements related to length of practice, knowledge and proficiency, awards, media 
coverage, teaching history, and active promotion of martial arts education. The application further 
lists an interview requirement and the following stipulation: 
The final review result of membership application depends on the situation. The 
admission rate will not exceed 5%; if the number of applicants is over l 000, the 
admission rate will be adjusted at no more than 3%. 
In addition, a manual submitted about the association further details membership requirements to be 
considered, such as whether an applicant has played "an irreplaceable or essential role in the heritance, 
conservation and development of a type of wushu that has been proved very rare and valuable," has 
"made great contributions to the education, communication or promotion ofmartial arts," has "a major 
social influence or reputation in the field of martial arts," or represents "the highest level of a certain 
genre of wushu." The manual also stipulates the following: 
To ensure professionalism of members, applicants who are commonly recognized as 
professional / outstanding in the field of martial arts may possess a higher possibility 
for acceptance to the International Wushu Association. The final result of a 
membership application will be subject to the consensus of the reviewing panel. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his advanced membership in the association as part of 
the standing committee. The Petitioner provided evidence describing standing committee membership 
stating that, in addition to having acquired a senior dan level and interviewing with the association's 
president, vice presidents and secretary general, advanced membership "requires unique contributions 
to the field of martial arts." A plain reading of this language indicates that membership is not based 
solely on meeting specific criteria, but on having outstanding achievements as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in the field. Associations may have multiple levels of membership. 
The level of membership afforded to the person must show that in order to obtain that level of 
membership, recognized national or international experts judged the person as having attained 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), criterion 2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
We conclude that the record includes sufficient evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's 
membership in the International Wushu Association as a standing committee member, more likely 
than not, requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in the field of kungfu. Therefore, the evidence of record meets the plain language of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner has met the requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(iii), and (iv). We therefore need not consider whether he met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) or (viii). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 