U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 8516350 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a physical scientist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991), The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that after he co-founded.__ ________ an instrument and apparatus 
business that measures an I I in 2005, he returned to China in November 2018 but 
"maintains good disclosure of his activities atl ~ with [the] University! I 
2 
.__ ____ __.I' Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In revoking the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. As the 
Petitioner claims no other criterion, beyond those discussed herein, we consider the remaining 
eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) to be waived. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that his "work onl I has substantially influenced extendinf the 
range of applications for I I through the production of I for 
multifunctionalities." In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
In his brief, the Petitioner contends that his publication in "top journals and conferences [] proves that 
experts in his field find his work to be majorly significant." Specifically, the Petitioner points to the 
publication of his articles in ACS Nano, Journal of Materials C, Proceedings of the National Academy 
of Sciences, Nature, Journal of the American Ceramic Society, and International Journal of Applied 
Glass Science. However, the Petitioner has not established that publication of articles in highly ranked 
or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and work to be an 
original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original." this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that he submitted "mulltiple aTcles that have been cited at a rate far 
exceeding that at which papers published by other experts have been cited, each thus 
constituting an original scholarly contribution of major significance." The Petitioner claims that his 
"articles have earned more citations that 90 -99% of other researchers who have published in the 
same field and time period." The record contains data from InCites Essential Indicators regarding 
baseline citation rates and percentiles by year of publication for various research fields, including 
engineering. 2 
The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically 
establish majorly significant contributions in the field. 3 Again, the issue for this criterion is whether 
the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than where his 
citation rates rank among the averages of others in his field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, 
would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field 
views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that ten of his articles at the time of filing, using InCites 
Essential Science Indicators methodology through citation numbers and percentiles, resulted in 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that his published articles had "been cited 272 times at the time of 
filing."4 This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance. The Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
his cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major significance in the field. 
Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than 
identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that 
his three highest cited articles received 38 (International Journal of Applied Glass Sciences), 38 
( Optics Letters), and 33 (Nature) citations, respectively. 5 Once again, this criterion requires the 
Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of his 
2 The documentation reflects that"[ c ]itation frequency is highly skewed, with many infrequently cited papers and relatively 
few highly cited papers," and"[ c ]onsequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as representing the central tendency 
of the distribution." Thus, the Petitioner did not show the reliability of the figures. 
3 For instance, according to the data from InCites Essential Indicators, engineering papers published in 2013 receiving five 
citations and in 2014 receiving two citations were in the top 10%, while papers published in 2013 receiving 13 citations 
and in 2014 receiving five citations were in the top 1 %. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with such citation 
counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among the top 10% 
of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
4 The Petitioner also claims that his published aiticles have now received over a thousand citations. Although the Petitioner 
indicates an unnamed exhibit as "(Exhibits [ citation record], [EST])," the Petitioner does not provide such exhibit on appeal, 
nor is there any supporting documentation to corroborate his asseitions. In fact, the Petitioner's "Index of Exhibits" does 
not list any citation evidence. Moreover, the additional citations to aiticles published after the initial filing will not be 
considered. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied 
from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 The Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. 
4 
published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. The Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For example, he did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although his citations are indicative that his 
research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation 
numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted excerpts of articles, including international 
articles, which cited to his work. 7 A review of those articles, though, do not show the significance of 
the Petitioner's research in the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 8 For instance 
the Petitioner provided a partial article entitled, 
'--------~--------------------------' (Applied 
Optics), in which the authors cited to two of his articles. 9 However, the article does not distinguish or 
highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers. 10 The paper does not indicate that 
the Petitioner's article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. 
Instead, the article briefly references his work as a type of technology and technique. The Petitioner 
has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that he "co-founded~--------~ and the company has 
been in operation as of July 31, 2005." Althou2:h the Director questioned the Petitioner's position and 
operational status of I ] this was not an issue for the decision regarding the 
Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. While the Petitioner provides documentation relating to the 
company's existence, operational status, and ongoing business activity, he did not demonstrate how 
the documentation represents original contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner 
does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that he made original contributions of major significance 
in the field through his employment or affiliation wit~ I 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that he presented testimonials attesting to his majorly significant 
contributions. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their 
publications in journals, and point to the citations of his work by others. Although they reflect the 
novelty of his work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have been 
considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level of major significance 
required by this criterion. For instance,! I stated that the Petitioner's work 
inl l"has provided for untold innovations for materials science, nanotechnology, fluid 
dynamics, and other interrelated disciplined."11 However, I ~id not offer any 
6 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals 
that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 Although he claims that he "has been widely cited by independent researchers around the world," the Petitioner did not 
establish how being cited by international researchers shows that his research is considered to be majorly significant. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 Although we discuss an example article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 The Petitioner provided only a partial page of citations reflecting that the article cited to at least 45 articles. 
11 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
example of the "untold innovations" or describe how the Petitioner has significantly influenced the 
field. Similarly, while~------~ claimed that the Petitioner "made a notable impact upon 
the I 1 I' he did not supplement his letter with specific examples showing how the Petitioner 
impacted the field in a significant way. Instead, the I I indicated the Petitioner's publication 
of articles in journals and citations by others. 
Furthermore, some of the letters speculate on the potential influence of the Petitioner's work and 
propose that he will have an impact at some undefined point in the future. For example,! I 
~---_....,......professor of electrical and computer engineering ate=] opined that the Petitioner's 
research "paves the way for greater applications in spectroscopy, remote sensing, pollutant detection, 
and defense usages," but he did not elaborate and explain if the research has ever been applied in the 
field. Likewise.I brofessor of material sciences at thel I I !claimed that "[t]his revolutionary process can be performed by hand," but he did 
not farther discuss whether the Petitioner's research has affected previous procedures, let alone actual 
implementation in the field. While the letters shows promise in the Petitioner's work, they do not 
establish how his work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than 
prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of his work has yet to be determined or 
measured. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.13 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. 
The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
12 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(2). 
13 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
has not shown that the significance of his work reflects the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although 
the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20605387 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actress who works in the Chinese film and television industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four of these criteria, and the Director 
concluded that she submitted evidence to satisfy three of them. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to lesser nationally recognized awards, published materials 
in major media, and commercial success. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (x). We will not 
disturb the Director's determinations with respect to these criteria. 
After determining that the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. Based on an evaluation of the totality of the evidence, the Director 
concluded that the record did not show the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and 
did not demonstrate that she is at the very top of her field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in conducting a multi-part analysis and final 
merits determination and cites to Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). The Petitioner further 
asserts that the Director's decision is contrary to the plain language of the regulatory language, arguing 
that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires only that she provide evidence of a qualifying 
major, internationally recognized award or evidence that satisfies at least three of the ten alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She further contends that since she has met the minimum 
required evidentiary criteria, the petition should be approved. 
The Petitioner further claims that the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian supports her position. 
Specifically, she maintains that, according to Kazarian, if an applicant has satisfied at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), "he should win" and if "he has met 2 or less, 
he should lose." In addition, she states that "[n ]owhere in Kazarian v. USCIS does 9th Circuit rule 
2 
that meeting 3 types of evidence does not qualify for extraordinary abilities." The Petitioner is 
mistaken in her reading of Kazarian, which does in fact set forth the multi-part analysis referenced 
above, in which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first meets the initial evidence 
requirements of a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at least three of the ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Kazarian decision does not state that meeting three of these 
criteria establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, Kazarian discusses a two-part review 
where the evidence is first counted and then, if the initial evidence requirements are fulfilled, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination to determine whether a given petitioner is one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor consistent with the 
statute and regulations for this restrictive classification. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director erred in 
proceeding to a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). In this matter, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this very high standard. On appeal, the Petitioner has 
not addressed the Director's decision beyond objecting to its inclusion of a multi-part analysis and 
final merits determination. Upon our de novo review of the record, and for the reasons discussed 
below, we have reached the same conclusion as the Director. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has maintained a professional acting career in China's television 
and film industries. As mentioned above, the Petitioner has won awards for acting, been featured in 
media publications in China, and has experienced some commercial success. The record, however, 
does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. See id. 
The Petitioner has established that she has received five acting awards from national performing arts 
entities in China. In 2010, she received the Television Drama Actress award 
at thee=J China Television! I Awards, as well as the ___ TV Actress award at 
the China TV Art Festival, which the Petitioner claimed "is the highest award for a 
television drama performing actress in China." The record reflects that the events received major 
media recognition in Beijing Daily as well as media coverage in other Chinese publications. The 
evidence establishes that these awards are nationally recognized and that her receipt of these awards 
garnered the Petitioner some national acclaim in China. However, she received these awards 
approximately 10 years prior to filing the petition and must demonstrate that she sustained this level 
of acclaim and remains at the very top of her field. 
For her performance in the television series I the Petitioner 
received the I I Actress award at the Television Award of China Radio 
3 
and Television Grand Prize in 2011. The award is described in the record as "the only government 
award for Chinese TV series," and documentation submitted indicates that the award is issued 
biennially. Although the record demonstrates some media coverage of these awards, the record does 
not include evidence that the award ceremony or the winners received media attention from major 
media or entertainment industry publications and does not otherwise establish to what extent this 
award contributed to the Petitioner's sustained national acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that she received the Award of China Most 
Favored Actress at the China I TV Festival in 2012. The Petitioner submitted search 
result statistics from Google for this award as well as a list of previous award winners from Baidu 
Encyclopedia, 1 noting that several of the past award winners are internationally renowned for their 
work. The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner received significant media 
coverage as a result of winning the award. Further, the record lacks evidence establishing the level of 
national acclaim associated with this achievement, or to what degree such acclaim was sustained, 
given that her next award, a China Film Performing Arts Institute Award, was received nearly seven 
years later inl 2019. While her receipt of the Most Favored Actress at the Chinal I I TV Festival garnered her some attention from the field, she has not shown that her receipt of 
this award resulted in or contributed to her sustained national or international acclaim. 
Regarding her China Film Performing Arts Institute Award, discussed above, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence demonstrating that this accolade is awarded to individuals who played roles in films "in the 
immediate past two years." According to the selection criteria, candidates for this award must also 
have achieved "excellent results in the new film performance" in either a leading or supporting role, 
and were required to submit an academic article summarizing the creative process of their role. The 
Petitioner again relied on the user-edited online encyclopedia site Baidu for information pertaining to 
past award winners, but provided insufficient evidence demonstrating that this competition is 
prestigious or well-known such that this award was nationally or internationally recognized and 
brought acclaim of that scope to the Petitioner. 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's awards establishes that she has received industry 
recognition based on her performances in television and in film, as well as some major media 
recognition, specifically as a result of herl I Awards received in 2010. The record 
demonstrates that she received all but one of her acting awards eight or more years prior to the filing 
of the petition in 2020, while the significance of her one more recent award has not been established. 
For these reasons, the evidence related to her awards does not demonstrate her sustained national 
acclaim in her field and indicate that she is currently among that small percentage who have risen to 
the very top of the field. 
Regarding published material about her, the Director determined that while the Petitioner submitted 
ample evidence demonstrating that she received media coverage within China, the record lacked 
evidence of major media coverage outside of China and internationally. Moreover, upon review, we 
note that many of the submitted articles were not supported by sufficient independent evidence to 
establish that the publications qualified as major media, as the Petitioner relied primarily on the 
publications' own websites, without providing objective evidence that such publications enjoy high 
1 We note that Baidu, similar to Wikipedia, is an online, open source, user-edited encyclopedia. 
4 
circulation or distribution in comparison in relation to others, or that they are professional or major 
trade media. 
Even if we determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to establish that all or most of 
the submitted articles had appeared in major media, the evidence does not establish that the articles 
published over the course of a decade-long career in the film and television industry are consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The submitted media coverage shows that the Petitioner has 
received media recognition for certain roles and projects during her career but does not demonstrate 
that she has enjoyed sustained national acclaim. The Petitioner works in a high-profile industry in 
which most, if not all, projects receive media coverage to some extent. Without evidence that sets her 
apart from others in this field, she has not established how the submission of the published articles 
about her demonstrates that she is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations 
implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high 
standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the 
petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 
Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Regarding the Petitioner's commercial success, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
commercial success of ______ a 2018 Chinese film in which she appeared. The box 
office ratings submitted demonstrate that this film has been widely viewed, and accordingly the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has achieved some degree of commercial success. However, the Petitioner 
does not offer evidence demonstrating that she has been recognized in the field for this success. For 
example, the Petitioner does not offer evidence showing how this film's commercial success sets her 
apart from that of the success of other films, and therefore other actors in her field of endeavor. 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, discussed above, we 
consider additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the 
evidence demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, we find that the 
evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she served as a juror for the Youth Film F es ti val 
in 201 7. The Petitioner, however, did not establish that her work on the judging committee of this 
youth film festival reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. She did not show, for example, that this single judging instance places her among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how her judging experience compares to others at the top of the field, that the committee included 
only nationally acclaimed artists, or that the judging committee members received significant 
recognition in the field as a result of their participation. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The record reflects that the Petitioner has enjoyed a career as a film 
and television actress, is regarded as a talented performer, and has received some industry and press 
5 
recognition with respect to a few of her projects over the years. However, the Petitioner seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are at the top of their respective fields. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 1, 2023 In Re: 26991084 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a soccer coach, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one ofthat small 
percentage at the very top ofhis field of endeavor. We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is 
now before us on motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a professional soccer player in Brazil and Trinidad and 
Tobago from 1993 until 2009, when he transitioned to coaching . The Petitioner initially held coaching 
roles wit~ Ia professional team in Trinidad and Tobago, and has coached 
youth soccer teams since 2015. At the time of filing in August 2020, he was employed as the head 
soccer coach for the Under 14 (Ul4) and Under 12 (U12) teams forl linICalifornia. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met four of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this I 
classification. Specifically, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence of 
published material about him and relating to his work as an athlete and coach; evidence that he had 
participated as a judge of the work of others in the field; evidence that he had performed in a leading 
or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and evidence that he has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (viii) 
and (ix). 
Because we determined the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we proceeded to a final 
merits determination to evaluate whether he had demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In our appellate decision, we determined the Petitioner did not 
establish eligibility. We noted the record does not demonstrate the Petitioner has achieved or sustained 
a level of acclaim he achieved from when he was a player and coach in Trinidad and Tobago to after 
when he went to pursue other coaching opportunities with youth soccer organizations, or a level of 
acclaim that places him at the top of the field among soccer coaches. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief, and supporting documentation to include, in part, an expert 
opinion letter and letters of support. The Petitioner asserts that these new facts establish eligibility 
evidencing that his work in subsequent years has brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a 
national or international level. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that from 2015 to 201 7 he served an essential role as a Director of 
Coaching at the~--------~Football Academy which was established by thel I 
I !Football Association. In support of this claim, he submits a letter from I I 
the I I Football Association's Director of Communications, who confirms the 
Petitioner's employment and outlines the duties he performed. The Petitioner farther indicated from 
2018 to 2020 he held the position of head soccer coach for I I In 
support ofthis claim, the Petitioner submits a letter from I IA Licensed Coach 
and Instructor, that states the Petitioner "coached at the highest level ofyouth soccer during his tenure 
inally, from 2019 to 2020, the Petitioner asserts he was the assistant coach withe==] 
in Brazil. In support of this claim, the Petitioner submits a letter from~ 
Ul 7 Head Coach, confirming his role as assistant coach and his duties. 
While we acknowledge the documentation submitted on motion highlights the Petitioner's continued 
experience as a coach up to the point of filing the instant petition, the Petitioner did not establish he 
sustained a level of acclaim, and he did not sufficiently demonstrate that these coaching positions 
placed him among the small percentage of coaches at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his coaching experiences compared to others at the 
top of the field or demonstrate how his coaching activities have either resulted from or contributed to 
his sustained national or international acclaim. Further, the regulations require that the Petitioner 
provide "extensive documentation" to show that his achievements have been recognized in the field. 
We found that the Petitioner had little or no evidence of such recognition in the five years preceding 
the filing of the petition; his submission on motion of more recent evidence of his coaching 
employment positions does not automatically meet this high standard or demonstrate that he has 
2 
sustained national or international acclaim as a coach. While the letters of support submitted on 
motion evidence that his colleagues respect and appreciate him, they do not sufficiently indicate he 
has sustained national or international acclaim as a coach. 
In addition, the Petitioner does not provide sufficient evidence of the rankin · ortance of the 
teams he has coached prior to filing the petition. Although the letter from.__,--__, ____, states the 
Petitioner coached at the highest level of youth soccer during his tenure with that information 
alone is not sufficient to understand the level of the Petitioner's coaching. For example,~is a 
large organization with several teams, and it is not clear if there is a ranking of teams within thee::] 
and whether the Petitioner is ranked as a coach within I IThe same is also true for his work as an 
assistant coach for the~-------~ in Brazil. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient 
documentation that would enable us to understand the ranking of that club within Brazil compared to 
other teams. Further, the Petitioner did not indicate how many coaches are part of that club and 
whether he was the only assistant coach or one of many. Without further context of the role of each 
coaching position the Petitioner held, it is impossible to determine if he is one of the small percentage 
of coaches at the very top of his field. 
On motion, the Petitioner also submits an opinion letter from Director and 
Professor of the Sfort Management program of the Colle e of Business and Economics 
at the University I In his opinion letter,.______ __. concluded the Petitioner has 
"extraordinary ability in the Soccer field and has satisfied at least six of the criteria of the USCIS 
classification as an Alien ofExtraordinary Ability." I !outlined in his letter the Petitioner's 
professional experience as a professional soccer player and coach. He often quotes from letters 
submitted in the record to further reiterate the Petitioner's experience. While we acknowledge the 
experience the Petitioner has as a professional soccer player and coach as outlined in the opinion letter, I ldoes not provide new evidence as it solely confirms evidence previously submitted and 
is not considered new facts. Nor does the opinion letter overcome the concerns discussed in our 
decision. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5199705 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has worked as a model in Venezuela and the United States in 
advertising campaigns for food, fashion, and beaut brands, in editorials in men's ma azines, and as 
a co-host and model on television shows such as'---------~-------~-___,,...... 
.__ _______ __. andl I The Petitioner asserts that her "ability to excel as both a 
commercial and television model" demonstrates her extraordinary ability as one who is among "the 
top percentage" of the field. 
A. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to a petitioner's occupation.1 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her evidence establishes that the criteria do not readily 
apply to fashion models and why she cannot off er evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
Furthermore, as discussed later, the Petitioner claimed to meet five criteria without the submission of 
comparable evidence, including lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). published material 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). In fact, the 
Petitioner asserts to only satisfying the criteria relating to artistic display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and commercial success under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) through comparable 
evidence, discussed below. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that models cannot present evidence 
relating to the other criteria, such as memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original 
contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that fulfills at least three criteria is not 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
evidence that she could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she qualifies 
for two criteria, as well as other criteria, through the submission of comparable evidence. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 3 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to six of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) but did not establish that she met any of them. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets seven criteria, relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, published materials in major media, judging the work of others, artistic display, 
leading or critical role, high salary, and commercial success in the performing arts. After reviewing 
all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on her receipt of an award from the Stars 
of Venezuela Foundation. The Petitioner previously submitted her award letter and information about 
the organization. The award letter indicates the Petitioner was selected for the Stars of Venezuela 
Award in the cate~.~------------------~ to be awarded on I 12015, in L___J Venezuela. Information from the Stars of Venezuela Organization 
indicates it is involved in artist representation and promotion through "the production and organization 
of shows, music festivals, tourism and food festivals." 
In support of her claim that the Stars of Venezuela award is a nationally recognized award for 
excellence in the Venezuelan modeling industry, the Petitioner also provided letters froml I I I of the Stars of Venezuela Foundation. In her first letter she states that the award 
recognizes "personalities of the artistic, sporting, cultural, social, political and business media in 
Venezuela ... who ... have achieved meritorious labor for the development of this country, becoming 
a role model .... " The letter indicates that winners are determined by "a large panel of judges" and 
that the award "has the greatest credibility and presti e in this country." The letter lists a number of 
award recipients including Venezuelan actors and I I The letter is 
accompanied by articles about.__ ____ ___. and ~---- from www.imdb.com and 
www.nytimes.com which, however, do not contain an[ information regarding whether they were Stars 
of Venezuela award recipients. In her second letter,_ I indicates that the Petitioner received 
the award based upon "[h ]er constant appearances on television, fashion shows and editorials. 
3 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) but did not satisfy that criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest this 
issue, rather she asse1is that the evidence related only to the lesser awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides two additional letters from I . In a letter dated 2016 she 
indicates that in the Petitioner's award category, a judging panel made up of professionals "renowned 
in the arts" considered "all professional models working in or from Venezuela." In a letter dated 2019, I !provides that the award recognized the Petitioner's professional achievements, such as her 
work "as a host and model of the international show I I" that "[t]he selection criteria of 
our award are based on the achievements, contributions and professional development of each of the 
nominees to the different categories in each year," and that the 1·udges included singerl I 
I I columnist I . I and model scout ._I ____ __._ 
Although I . Is letters refer to the award as "a tremendous feat" and "of greatest credibility and 
prestige," they do not show that the field recognizes the Stars of Venezuela Award as a national or 
international award for excellence. Moreover, the Petitioner did not offer supporting evidence, such 
as widespread media coverage of the award in major newspapers or other evidence showing the 
award's recognition for excellence in the field. The Petitioner provided a press release from the 
website of La Patilla which does not mention her, announcing an upcoming Stars of Venezuela Award 
gala in[==:]2015 at which the music groupl lwill perform, and printouts from Similar Web 
regarding the "traffic overview" for Lapatilla.com indicating that it has 11.9 million total visits. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of the viewing statistics or explain how 
such information reflects status as major media. Further, one submitted publicity release is not 
sufficient to establish that the Stars of Venezuela award winners receive a level of media coverage that 
is commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the modeling industry. 
The Petitioner submitted little background information regarding the Stars of Venezuela awards, such 
as a complete list of all the award categories and the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards. In 
addition, it is not clear how many awards ceremonies take place annually. The submitted article from 
La Palilla, pertaining to a different gala than that at which the Petitioner was recognized, indicates 
that there are multiple award ceremonies each year. The limited background information provided 
here is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition associated with the 
Stars of Venezuela Award, and there is no documentary evidence showing that the Petitioner's specific 
Star of Venezuela Award was recognized beyond the presenting organization and, therefore, 
commensurate with nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field. Without independent, objective evidence which establishes that this award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for modeling, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this 
criterion. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided articles from several Venezuelan newspapers in support of this criterion. The 
Director found articles from Meridiano and El Nuevo Pais to be deficient because they do not include 
the required author. In addition, the Petitioner provided articles from the newspapers La Region and 
La Vaz. However, she did not submit supporting evidence to show that La Region qualifies as a 
4 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. Further, the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence indicating that the print edition of La Vaz qualifies as major media.4 The Petitioner offered 
printouts from Similar Web regarding the "traffic overview" for Diariolavoz.net indicating that the 
online version of the publication has 320,600 total visits. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that she participated "as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization." The Petitioner initially submitted a certificate 
of apeecirion dated November 19, 2016, for her participation as "an honorable Judge" in the 2016 
Miss Juniors International pageant inl I Florida, signed by the pageant director 
She also included photographs of herself and two unidentified persons in front of a 
promotional banner for the event. She farther provided a letter from I I of I I 
l I in D Florida, that provides some bjckgrolund information about the pageant, for instance, 
that the winner is "selected to represent the Juniors Athletic Club of Argentina" and that 
"[ s ]everal models compete at a chance to win the competition ... of which 26 go on to the finals 
before a single winner is selected," based upon criteria including charisma, artistic talent, and public­
speaking ability. Regarding the Petitioner's participation in the pageant, I I provides that 
the Petitioner was "selected to serve as a member of the selection committee because she is a 
successful model with many years of professional experience in the industry." He indicates that the 
Petitioner "served as a jury member in each step of the competition, including selecting the winner .. 
. . " He states that as member of "the jury panel selecting the winner, her role included evaluating each 
one of the contestants who made it to the finals and presented her case during the live event." 
Upon review, we find insufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner actually participated as a 
judge in the competition. Although I I states that the Petitioner "was crucial to our 
competition's success and professional outlook," the record does not document the manner in which I I is authorized to represent or speak on behalf of the Missc=]Juniors International 
pageant, nor does it contain evidence from the competition's organizers about the 2016 MissD 
Juniors International pageant showing the competitors judged by the Petitioner and the name of the 
finalists and winner she specifically selected. Merely submitting a certificate of appreciation and a 
statement asserting that the Petitioner judged the work of others without evidence showing who she 
judged, and their field of specialization is insufficient to establish eligibility for this criterion. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, there is no 
documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific assessments and the names of the models 
whose work she evaluated. For these reasons, we find the evidence submitted insufficient to verify 
the Petitioner's participation as a judge in the competition 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
The Director determined that the above-referenced materials do not meet this criterion, because they do 
not address how the Petitioner "is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor and that [the Petitioner] enjoys sustained national or international acclaim." On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director went beyond the plain language of the regulation in considering the 
nature of her judging duties. We agree. If the Petitioner submits evidence that she participated in judging 
of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization, we will conclude that the evidence 
satisfies the plain language of this criterion.5 For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not present 
such evidence. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets the plain language of the criterion through the documentation 
submitted of"her work at artistic showcases through fashion exhibitions, runway shows, and print and 
commercial advertisements because these are places or events where something may be shown or 
performed." In the alternative, the Petitioner requests that we consider that documentation as 
"comparable evidence" in support of this criterion. The Director found that "because the evidence 
does not indicate that [the Petitioner's] works were displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
( virtual or otherwise)" the Petitioner did not satisfy the evidentiary requirements of this criterion. 
Upon review, the Petitioner has not established that the evidence submitted represents a display of her 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner provided evidence of her having been a host 
and model in the entertainment showsl I.__ ______ __. andl I 
She also submitted evidence of her having appeared and been featured as a model in print and online 
advertisin cam ai ns for crmpanir including! II 11 I I l I I I J , andl l and in editorials in the men's 
magazines.__ ___ __., ,__ _ ___, and I I. Although the screenshots provided of those 
entertainment programs and the tear-sheets or copies submitted of those advertisements and editorials 
show that the Petitioner's work was displayed on television and in print and digital media, the language 
of this criterion specifically requires display of the Petitioner's work at "artistic exhibitions or 
showcases" ( emphasis added). The documentary evidence the Petitioner submitted was insufficient 
to establish that the catalogues, lookbooks, magazines, and TV programs in which her work was 
displayed can be considered "artistic" in nature, 6 as required under this criterion, as opposed to 
commercial media. 
5 The nature of the Petitioner's judging duties would be more relevant to an examination of the totality of the evidence. As 
discussed above, where a petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9-10. 
6 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the plain language 
requirements of this evidentiary criterion or that the evidence on which she relies is comparable to the 
evidence required by the criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented the 
above-referenced documentation indilcatingl that she appeared in advertisements for companies 
including I 11 I and ~-----~ and information about these 
companies. To addition sbe or?ivided media articles discussing the television programs ~I ----~ I l I JI lin which she appeared as a host and model. On appeal, 
the Petitioner argues that "as a Model working in the field of television and advertising, box office 
receipts and video sales are not always available to document [the Petitioner's] commercial success 
because several of her productions are broadcast in real time to viewers on a television screen and 
through other media." The Petitioner farther states that she submitted "evidence of the revenue and 
profits for several of the distinguished organizations and establishments for which [the Petitioner] has 
played a lead and critical role in their commercial success." 
While the evidence established that the Petitioner has appeared in advertisements for various 
companies and television programming, she has not shown that the success of those companies and 
television shows was attributable to her specific work as a model or television host. Furthermore, she 
has not demonstrated that her televised performances have attracted substantial audiences or that her 
advertising work generated significant sales. In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show 
that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to 
others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 7 Here, the record does not include evidence 
identifying the Petitioner as having commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is 
the evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned companies 
and television programs in which she appeared were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. 8 In light 
of the above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the plain language requirements of 
this evidentiary criterion or that the evidence on which she relies is comparable to the evidence 
required by the criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, published material, judging, 
artistic display, and commercial success. Although she submits evidence for two additional criteria 
on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 9 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
8 For example, with respect to the Venezuelan and U.S. enteitainment programs in which she appeared, the Petitioner has 
not shown that their television ratings or viewing audience increased significantly once she joined their programs. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has appeared in advertisements for various companies and television 
programming, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8088205 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and entrepreneur in the industrial lubricants industry, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement of either receiving a major, 
internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and president of Lubricants Technology I L a producer of China. He earned a 
bachelor's degree in economics fro"-'L-----=~-.---------,,-------'College, and an executive 
master of business administration degree from~-~--- Graduate School of Business. He 
indicates that he intends to continue working "as a scientist, researcher, and entrepreneur in the 
........_ ______ _.lubricants field in the United States." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of published scholarly articles and his 
leading role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
he also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets the two criteria he 
identified in his decision. Specifically, the record includes evidence that the Petitioner coauthored 
three articles which were published in professional journals, and that he served in a leading role for c===J as its founder and president since 2009. In addition, the record sufficiently establishes l_ __ _Js distinguished reputation in thel I lubrication industry. 
2 
However, we disagree with the Director regarding the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director found in his decision that 
"experience as a teacher/professor grading students" does not qualify under this criterion since such 
activity does not demonstrate that his achievements have been recognized in the field. As the 
Petitioner notes on appeal, the record does not contain evidence that he has worked as a professor, but 
was instead appointed to serve on committees evaluating thesis projects for students in the graduate 
chemical engineering program at thel !University of Technology. This evidence satisfies the 
plain language requirements of this criterion, and whether it serves to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has received sustained acclaim at the national or international level is an issue to be determined within 
a final merits determination. 
We note that the Petitioner submits new evidence on appeal in support of the additional criteria he 
asserts that he meets, as well as his intentions to continue working in his field of endeavor in the United 
States. However, where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Here, the Director notified the Petitioner of several deficiencies in the 
record in his request for evidence (RFE), and requested additional evidence of the type that the 
Petitioner now submits. We will therefore not consider this evidence when making our determination. 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he has 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements, and we need not consider whether he meets the additional 
criteria as asserted in his appeal brief Rather, we will consider the evidence submitted in support of 
those criteria, together with the balance of the record, to determine whether he possesses the level of 
sustained acclaim and standing in his field to establish his eligibility as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
In the section of his appeal brief addressing the final merits determination, the Petitioner first focuses 
on his role as an innovator, stressing his leadership of the research and development team at I I 
that developed lubricants and other products, some of which were patented in China. He asserts that 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
these products "perform better than cojpeting pf°ducts on many fronts," and that these innovations 
have made the company a leader in the lubricants sector in China. However, although the 
patents granted in China on these products confirm their oritinality on the national level, the 
Petitioner's assertions regarding their performance andl Js leadership in the industry are not 
supported by the record. His initial filing included several reference letters from experts in the 
economics and chemical engineering fields.2 For example,~-------~ofthe Department 
of Economics at University indicates in his letter that he knows the Petitioner through the 
Chamber of Commerce, and that he is "a unique and highly skilled researcher and 
~i_nn_o_v_a-to_r __ ,-, -A-lt~hough I I does not claim expertise regarding the industrial lubricant 
industry in China, he states that the Petitioner's work "has ignited the I I lubricant industry in 
China," and that he "laid the foundation for a newl I lubricant industry in China." 
Another reference letter was written byl I ofi I University of Science 
and Technology, who describes the properties of~ lgrease and an oil for use in air 
compressors which were developed by the Petitioner and his company, and concludes that these 
products outperform competitors. He also states that due to the Petitioner's efforts in forming 
partnerships with suppliers of raw materials, "China now has a growmg industry of I I 
lubricants." 
However, these statements regarding the Petitioner's innovation and I Is industry leadership 
are not corroborated elsewhere in the record. For example, the Petitioner states in his appeal that when 
considering the significance of his original contributions to the field, the Director erred in finding that 
his innovations had not been implemented by scientists in the field. We agree that in the context of 
thd !lubrication industry in whichl I competes, business-related factors such as market 
share would be a more appropriate gauge of the significance of the Petitioner's innovations and 
business leadership. However, the record does not include evidence demonstrating that his 
contributions have led to the industry-wide impacts asserted in the letters. The Petitioner oints to 
evidence thatl I was a qualified supplier of lubricants toL....r---,_ _________ ____J 
I , l which the record indicates is the energy provider for the~-~ area, for the 2019 calendar 
year, as well as an approved supplier to I I Although the Petitioner submitted 
copies of announcements from both companies seeking bids for wind turbine! loil for a total of 
1 70 wind turbines, the record does not include evidence that won these bids, or that doing 
so would have placed it in a leading position in the~--~ lubricant industry in terms of market 
share. 
The Petitioner also submitted financial statements for I I for 201 7. We first note that although 
the evidence indicates that this information is taken from the company's annual report, it does not 
include a statement concerning whether the statements were audited or reviewed, and therefore must 
be considered as the unverified statements of management. Further, a review of the figures represented 
in the statement shows that the company experienced a significant financial loss in that and the 
preceding year, and the record does not include comparative evidence to corroborate the assertions of I Ps standing in the field in terms of product sales or market share. 
2 All reference letters in the record have been thoroughly reviewed and considered, including those not specifically 
mentioned in this decision. 
4 
Other evidence in the record regarding I ~s place in the industry under the Petitioner's 
leadership include a self-generated list comparing the number of patents licensed by the company 
versus some of its competitors, and evidence of awards received by the company. Regarding the 
number of patents, although this evidence shows thatl I has been more active than some of its 
competitors in filing and securing patents, we note that this list does not include some of the company's 
traditional competitors named elsewhere in the record. Similar to the evidence reviewed above, and 
considered together with that evidence, it does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has lead his company 
to an industry-leading position as asserted, and therefore does not establish that the Petitioner is one 
of the very few entrepreneurs at the top of the business field. 
As for the awards receTed bvl I ) these include nine certificates stating that specific products 
have been identified as ' High-Tech Achievements Transf~atiol ;~1ject." Other evidence 
in the record indicates that the awarding of these certificates entitles financial support from 
a municipal fund, but does not otherwise suggest recognition for or, by extension, the 
Petitioner as the company's leader. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence of the Petitioner's position with an additional company,~!-~ 
I ~ Lubricants Material Technology Ltd.I ~-A letter from a 
human resources executive states that he has been employed with the company since 2009 as executive 
director, but then indicates somewhat confusingly that he has been employed "for at least one 
continuous year within the past 9 years." Also included is an extensive translation of the company's 
website, as well as copies of four sales contracts between North Europe and its clients. While this 
evidence indicates that the Petitioner "worked for at least one continuous year" for this company in a 
leadership position, and that the company was doing business in 201 7, it does not show that his 
association with North Europe garnered acclaim for the Petitioner or places him as a leading 
entrepreneur. 
Additional reference letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner has played a role in the 
development of two other companies in the industry through strategic business partnerships. For 
example.__ _______ _.ofl I Institute of Technology writes that I I entered into 
a strategic business partnership with these companies, helping one of them to establish its own research 
and development system and develop new lubricant products. However, the Petitioner did not submit 
documentary evidence about or from either of these companies to support these assertions about his 
company's partnership with them or any resulting success they have enjoyed. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of a leadership role for a different type of entity, the~I --~ 
I !Graduate School of Business' j I Alumni Association for the western United States. This 
includes a certificate showing his appointment as the "Joint Chairman of the first session of Service 
Team" of the association in December 2015. A letter from I I describes the purpose the alumni 
association, and confirms the Petitioner's invitation to join the alumni council due to his "excellent 
personal reputation" and "great influence among alumni." Additional evidence also includes 
information about I I and its reputation as a graduate business school, as well as meetings held 
by the alumni association co-chaired by the Petitioner. While this evidence demonstrates his 
leadership role for a chapter of the I 1:ilumni association, it does establish that he was invited to 
this position due to national or international acclaim as an innovator or entrepreneur, or that this 
activity places him as one of the few at the top of the field of business. 
5 
The record also includes evidence of awards the Petitioner has received for his work as an innovator 
and entrepreneur. In his decision, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) because he did not submit national or international media coverage of the 
awards he received. Although such evidence is persuasive in documenting any national or 
international recognition of an award, as well showing that the Petitioner has earned national or 
international acclaim, we agree with the Petitioner that requiring that type of evidence goes beyond 
the plain language of the criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to two articles he previously 
submitted which describe the events during which the awards were issued, and notes that they were 
attended by "distinguished national figures ... from the highest levels of China's government business, 
and scientific communities." The first of these awards appearing in the record is the' Scientific 
and Technological Innovation Leading Figure" certificate received by the Petitioner at the.__ __ ___. 
Scientists Forum" inl I 2018. According to the certificate and supporting documentation 
from the forum's website, the awarding organizations included business associations and a national 
journal for business managers in the technology sector. Two articles posted on Chinese web portals, 
accompanied by incomplete English translations, confirm attendance by government officials and 
"more than 900 scientists, science and technology managers, science and technology experts, and 
entrepreneurs from all over the country ... " However, neither article mentions any awards given at 
this event. In addition, the agenda for the forum mentions only one award specifically, the "Special 
Contribution Award," and briefly mentions that "science and technology award activity will also be 
launched." Absent additional information regarding the award received by the Petitioner, such as the 
number and level of awards granted at the forum, and the criteria for selecting the awardees, the record 
does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national or international acclaim through his receipt of 
this award. 
The other award highlighted by the Petitioner in his initial submission is a certificate titled "Honorary 
Credential" which states that he is awarded the title of I I at the 20161 !Economic Summit Forum. A~n-art_i_c-le_p_o_s_t-ed_o_n_a_n_o_th_e_r_w_e_b_p_o_rt_a~l 
notes that several awards were given to entrepreneurs at this meeting, and includes the names of those 
who received the "Special Award" (four awardees) and "Economic Personages of the Year" (ten 
awardees ). It then lists six categories of "other" awards, including the award received by the 
Petitioner, without listing the names of the awardees in the main text of the article. 3 The Petitioner 
stresses that this article includes a list of Chinese government and industry officials who attended the 
awards ceremony, but we note that many of the individuals listed are current or former employees of 
the sponsoring organizations. In addition, although the Petitioner provides evidence about the portal 
on which this article is posted, sohu.com, which consists of the company's own overview which is 
targeted toward potential investors, this evidence does not demonstrate that this single article posted 
on one of the portal's many websites is indicative of widespread recognition of this award. The 
Petitioner has therefore not established that the award he received was recognized beyond the attendees 
of this event and the award sponsors. 
The record also includes certificates showing that the Petitioner received two additional awards: the 
Invention and Entrepreneur Achievement A ward I I from the I I Association of 
Inventions inl ~018, and the Excellent Project Award fo~ I Industry-University-
3 The names of all 74 awardees, including the Petitioner's, were attached as an appendix to the article. We note that the 
complete translation of this article was only submitted on appeal. 
6 
Research Cooperation! I also inl 12018. Each certificate is accompanied by 
information about the awards from the issuing organizations' websites. The information from the I !Association oflnventions describes the nomination procedure, but does not indicate the number 
of awards issues or explain the different levels of the award. Regarding the Excellent Project Award, 
the evidence indicates that it is limited to enterprises registered in I I and that three I I 
I I were issued in 2018.4 
The Petitioner also stresses on appeal that he has "proven his influence on the field" through his 
authorship of scholarly articles. The record includes two scholarly articles co-authored by the 
Petitioner which were published in the journal Lubrication Engineering, and another published in 
Lubricating Oil. He also submitted evidence showing that these three articles have been cited by 
others in their own published work on one occasion, and downloaded dozens of times. This evidence 
does not demonstrate that other innovators or entrepreneurs in the field of business have frequently 
applied or implemented the Petitioner's work, either in their own published research or in practice, or 
that this research has shown the Petitioner's influence or otherwise established him as one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
As noted above, the record establishes that the Petitioner has served as an "Enterprise Tutor" for ~ts in the postgraduate chemical engineering department atl I Institute of Technology 
L_J since December 2016, despite not having a degree in chemical engineering. In this role, he 
served on the dissertation defense committee for at least three students in 2019. This evidence shows 
that as a respected member of the business community, he has played a role in the development of 
individual students. However, the evidence does not establish that he has garnered acclaim through 
this activity due to the frequency or level at which he has performed this work, and/or the reputation 
of0 
Also, the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding his role as an investment consultant for the 
government of I I in the province ofl I China, which the evidence indicates 
included setting up an incubator and industrial park for technology crmpan,es. Although the Petitioner 
appears to have been given a large amount of responsibility by the government to initiate and 
oversee this project, the evidence does not show that it had achieved a significant level of development 
or success at the time of filing, or that the project and the Petitioner's leadership of it had been 
acclaimed at the national or international level. 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence that he has established and ledl I to successfully develop ~--~I grease and lubricant products, but the record does not support his assertions to have made 
an impact on the overall industry in China, or that he has otherwise achieved national or international 
acclaim for his work. While he has been recognized for his work as an innovator and businessperson 
through personal awards for entrepreneurship, and his reputation in his field has led to appointments 
with several local or regional organizations, the totality of the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. 
4 We note that while the certificate lists the Petitioner's name and does not mentio11I I the list on the organization's 
website listsl I as the winner and includes a blank field titled "Winning Individual." This discrepancy should be 
addressed in any further proceedings in this matter. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6735751 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur in the field of business, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The Director further 
found that the Petitioner did not establish that he would continue work in his area of expertise in the 
United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an entrepreneur of extraordinary ability in business, having managed and 
directed companies in various fields. The records of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) indicate that in 2017 the Petitioner was granted E-2 nonimmigrant status and that he has been 
employed as the president ofl I a U.S. franchise of.__ ______ ~ a 
Brazilian beauty supply and beauty school company incorporated in Florida in 2010. The record also 
shows that in Brazil, the Petitioner has been employed as the owner of a logistics companyJ I I O ,I, a business offering services for ton logistics and mooring 
vessels, as well as warehousin , shi loadin and unloadin , and has oerformed port logistics services 
related to the oil industr a I I, and CT I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he 
has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming to meet eight criteria, relating 
to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations, published 
materials in major media, judging the work of others, original business contributions of major 
significance, artistic display, leading or critical role, and high salary.1 After reviewing all of the 
evidence, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based upon an award received byl I and a 
claimed award received by thel I In order to fulfill this criterion, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to an additional criterion, 
commercial success in the performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner 
does not contest this issue on appeal and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 
767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner provided evidence regardin~ ~ s receipt of a recognition award plaque in 2015 
from for "the success and important receipt of the 8 PLETs, 
~-------~" We note that the English translation of the award is not accompanied by the 
re uired certification from the translator. 4 The Petitioner also submitted a letter dated 2019 from 
confirming that the Petitioner acted as "Contract and Project Manager" for 
involving "the delivery of a~---------~ project within I ..., I 
, from January through June 2015." He asserts that for the project the Petitioner "played a 
~k-ey_ro_l~e for the delivery of the scope of 8 I I Pipeline End Terminations (PLETs)," and indicates 
that the Petitioner's contribution of "delivery of the equipment on time, on budget and without 
incidents .... has been endorsed by a recognition award." The Petitioner additionally provided an 
article from www.forbes.com, indicating that~ ........ -----~ is the second-largest oil and gas athel l2017 list. Further, the Petitioner provided a May 2017 letter from I I 
, operational manager oti l indicating that the award regarding work on "the 
' is "one of the largest international oil & gas industry awards to date." However, the 
record does not contain, nor does the Petitioner reference, any corroborating evidence to support D I ts claims. 
Regarding the I laward, we agree with the Director that it was awarded to I I, not to the 
Petitioner himself. According to the plain language of this criterion, the evidence must establish that 
an individual petitioner is the actual recipient of the prizes or the awards. 5 On appeal, the Petitioner, 
through counsel, em,hasizes that "despite theOaward bearing only the name of the Petitioner's 
Company I J' his work was integral to the receipt of the award and the award should be 
credited to him. While the Petitioner submitted a letter from the awarding entity, explaining how he 
"played a key role" inl Is receipt of the C7recognition award, it remains that he is not the 
recipient of the award. In addition, this letter from the awarding entity was written years after the 
award was granted tol I and it does not indicate that the awarding entity's intent was to 
recognize the Petitioner individually for his work. The ~ner did not, for example, provide 
evidence that he received any individual recognition froml__Jcontemporaneous with the grrting I 
of the company award tol I In addition, the Petitioner did not establish tha~ l's 
award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. While the award 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. The foreign language on the award plaque is in 
Portuguese, however, the certification indicates that the translator "is qualified to translate documents from Italian to 
English." 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra at 6 (stating that for this criterion, the focus should be on an 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes). 
3 
plaqre inrcates it was in recognition ofl l's performance on~--------~ project, 
and is undoubtedly a large oil and gas company, the record does not contain evidence establishing 
that the award is recognized nationally or internationally for excellence in the field beyond the awarding 
entity. 
The Petitioner also claims to satisfy this criterion based upon~s claimed recei t of the 2008 "Best 
Port" award. IHe provided a letter dated January 9, 2019 from 
director of the port authority,! ) who asserts that._______.'was awarded one 
of the best ports in Brazil in 2008" and that "[t]he methods for achieving such excellence included the 
participation of [the Petitioner] as managing director ofl I" The Petitioner also submitted a 
translated excerpt of an article dated 2008 from www.exam.com.br, indicating thatc=Jachieved a 
rating of "good " based u on " a surve with 200 executives from user companies completed in 
January by the , linked to the postgraduate nucleus of thel I 
University~--------~ " However, the Petitioner did not establish that he himself: 
as opposed to his employer, received this recognition. While the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
port authority management explaining how he was instrumental to the port's receipt of that 
recognition, it remains that he was not the recipient of this recognition. 
In addition, the record does not establish that the recognition the port received from D is a 
"nationally or internationally recognized prize or award" as required by the plain language of the 
regulation this criterion. In response to the Director's request for evidence such as a photograph of 
the award or copy of the award certificate, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that he received an 
award or prize fromD Further, although the Petitioner provided evidence thatc=J recognized 
the Petitioner's employer based on an academic survey of port users, the record does not demonstrate 
the national or international significance of that recognition. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that 
"the ratings were granted upon evaluating the Eighteen (18) main ports in the entire country of Brazil." 
The fact that the survey rated ports on a national basis, however, does not establish that the rating itself 
has a reputation as a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eli ibility for this criterion based on membership with the I d 
1,------------,.___J andc=J, the leasing company for I lo~ I in th 
Brazil I I. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show ~--------~ that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 6 In denying 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner indicated membership withl land provided the aforementioned letter fromO 
~ I confirming the Petitioner's membership inl I According tol I L I, I I "require[ s] excellence of our members" and the Petitioner is an entrepreneur of 
"outstanding achievements" in the port market, "especially in logistical support for offshore oil and 
gas exploration and production activities." He summarizes some of the Petitioner's accomplishments 
as managing director for Din 2005, including the "simultaneous operations of intercontinental 
cargo ships and supply boats in oil and gas activities within the same port." On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts thatl l's letter "demonstrates that not just any professional within the 
industry may satisfy the standards for the Council's membership."7 The record also contains a copy 
of the Petitioner's 2006/2007 badge for access toO issued byl I. 
Regarding the Petitioner's indicated membership i he submitted a letter fr""'o=m=l----------1 
president, who states that the Petitioner became director of.__ _ _, upon referral by~I ------~ 
I I due to his "vital" performance in winning the port lease for the organization in 1998. She 
asserts thatl ~'require[ s] outstanding achievement of our team" and the Petitioner's "contributions 
are of excellence." 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that the Petitioner's accomplishments as managing 
director for~ or on behalf of~---------- ........ are tantamount to an outstanding 
achievement consistent with this regulatory criterion. In addition, tie Petitioner did not provide 
supporting documentation, such as thj bylaws of I I and to corroborate the claims of 
I I and I and establish the ornauizations'r..m.e111.bership requirements. 8 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that membership itj ]andL_Jis judged by recognized 
national or international experts. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
7 We note that in support of this argument, the Petitioner's brief also quotes additional statements purportedly in I I I Is letter that do not appear there, such as that the "slightest mistake made at a port where oil and gas are 
handled could cost millions of dollars and contribute to resource shortages ... therefore, [Petitioner's] membership on 
[the] council has been essential to the maintenance of [the Council's] excellence." 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion 
that membership was not based on outstanding achievements include years of experience in a particular field, payment of 
a subscription fee, or employment in certain occupations). 
5 
the material. 9 In support of this criterion the Petitioner submitted copies of 22 articles published 
between 1998 and 2001 in Brazilian newspapers, including A Gazeta, A Tribuna, A Gazeta Vitoria 
ES, A Gazeta Grande Vit r· z ta Mercantil, and Journal Vila Velha Noticias. The articles show 
that in 1998 D leased for the movement of sold bulk loads. In 2ooue to the growth 
of exploratory activities in the~~---~ and I I basins,D created to offer services 
to seven multinationals pursuing oil and gas exploration at the coast ofl l 1° Further, in 
2001 ~ entered into an agreement to provide port logistics services atl Ito the British 
compan~ I 
First, we note that five of the articles do not mention the Petitioner. While the remaining articles 
identify the Petitioner as the director of the ~-----~ and its related companies, I I I I and D, and several of them briefly quote him, they are not articles about him. 
Rather, the articles are about the I ts business activities related to its lease ofl I D including performing port logistics services related to the oil industry. Articles that are not about 
a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not 
about the actor). 11 In addition, we note that of the articles that mention the Petitioner, 13 articles do 
not contain either the required author or date of the material. 
Further, as it relates to Gazzetta Mercantil, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
www.bloomberg.com and www.v-brazil.com which claimed that Gazzetta Mercantil is an economy 
and finance newspapaer and that "[i]t used to be the most important financial newspaper in Brazil, but 
it faced a crisis in the 1990s, bordering on bankruptcy." The Petitioner did not provide circulation 
figures for the publication to establish its major medium status consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 12 Finally, the Petitioner did not present documentary evidence establishing that A Gazeta, 
A Tribuna, A Gazeta Vitoria ES, A Gazeta Grande Vitoria,. or Journal Vila Velha Noticias is a 
professional or major trade publication. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires an alien to show that he has participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specialization.13 For the reasons outlined below, the record 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
10 The published materials also indicate that in the mid-l 990s Brazil ended the petroleum monopoly held by PETROBRAS 
and opened the petroleum sector to foreign oil companies. 
11 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 
does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he 
meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based his activities as vice president ~ ~s company forl I The Petitioner submitted the aforementioned letter from L__-==._j 
L___Joperational mana~er ofl I who asserts that the Petitioner "continues to participate 
with us in the activities o I through I I, contributing as an expert judge of contracts and 
business progress of the port activities, and in maintaining and negotiating contracts of our clients 
though his evaluations of executive employee decisions and larger Port plans." 
In his decision, the Director found that, although the Petitioner asserts that the Petitioner has judged 
the work of other entrepreneurs or executives in their business capacities, the record does not contain 
evidence sufficient to show "the specific categories evaluated by the [p ]etitioner, the names of the 
participants, or their level of expertise." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that I I's letter 
establishes that the Petitioner participated "as a judge through his employment as consultant for I I." This regulatory criterion requires evidence that the petitioner has served as "a judge of the 
work of others." The Petitioner has not established that performing routine managerial duties as a 
consultant such evaluating the "business progress of the port activities" and "negotiating contracts of 
I I clients though his evaluations of executive employee decisions and larger Port plans" equates 
to participation as a judge of the work of others in the field. 
In addition, the record does not include documentary evidence to corroborate I l's letter 
regarding the Petitioner's role. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS 
may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration 
Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self­
serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board 
also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial 
and documentary evidence, where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or 
credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 
21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, the record lacks specificity and detail of the Petitioner's role 
wit~ I. A letter asserting that the Petitioner judged "contracts and business progress of the 
port activities" without specifying the work he judged and the other workers' fields of specialization 
is insufficient to establish eligibility for this criterion. Accordingly, we find that this evidence does 
not sufficiently establish the Petitioner's qualification under this criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the recommendation letters submitted from his colleagues reflect his 
business-related contributions in the field. 14 In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish 
that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
14 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. The Director concluded that the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that the evidence establishes that his contributions to the field include "[c]reating l00's of 
jobs in the p~ ]ringing huge international oil and gas companies to Brazil, including D 
I land L___J to Brazil ... [b ]ringing more revenue into Brazil from the oil and gas sector, 
[ and] [b ]ringing employment opportunities for thousands of Brazilian Citizens." 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's recommendation letters confirm his entrepreneurial work for 
,..__ _______ ___., D, c=J, andl I For instanceJ I who 
worked with the Petitioner at c=J praises the Petitioner's "dedication and commitment" in "making ~ a solid and recognized company within the Oil & Gas Indust " evaluatin ro · ects for clients 
operating in~ I and I I operational 
manager otLJ who also worked with the Petitioner at .___...,..praises the Petitioner's "dedication 
and commitment" to the initial development of thec=Jlort telinal, and his work with ~on 
"important contracts with~-------~J l an~ I" 
~------------ owner of a Brazilian port management company, asserts that the 
Petitioner is a pioneer in business and maritime trade in Brazil, based upon his successful management 
ofthe~port terminal and transformatiqn ofl l"from financial disaster to one that 
exclusively took on oil and gas activities." l I asserts in his aforementioned letter that 
the Petitioner's work as director of resulted in increasing "the terminal's trade capacity, bringin9 lucrative contracts to the port terminal." .__ _____ _.a colleague of the Petitioner at .... l ____ _.J 
and I I claims that his work with the Petitioner on a project developing logistical 
support for the offshore segment i~ .... --------~~·generated 800 direct jobs in the Port." 
He states that the Petitioner's duties involved "managing the work of our largest clients such as 
I 1,1 I and c=J' and that "[t]he policies, projects, analytics, and logistics [the 
Petitioner] created are fundamental parts of our contracts .... " The record does not indicate, however, 
evidence that other entrepreneurs in Brazil have similarly utilized the Petitioner's policies, projects, 
analytics, and logistics. Here, the Petitioner has not established that the impact of his services extends 
beyond those companies and would connote a contribution of major significance to the field of 
business or entrepreneurship. 
Upon review, although the authors of the aforementioned letters demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
work was highly regarded by the companies with which he has worked, the letters do not establish 
how the Petitioner's work is viewed by the field as original contributions of major significance in the 
field. Here, the authors do not explain how the Petitioner has significantly impacted the field in a 
major way consistent with this regulatory criterion. The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information identifying his original contributions and explaining the unusual influence his 
entrepreneurial work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 15 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
15 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 16 Moreover, 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att)· Gen., 745 F. 
Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Additionally, demonstrating ability as a skilled entrepreneur is not itself a contribution of major 
significance; rather, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has impacted the field as a whole. 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Further, while the record contains press releases and media coverage pertaining to the Petitio~ 
above-mentioned involvement in the management of the I I port terminal, and his work at L_J 
providing port logistics to multinationals likel !pursuing oil and gas exploration at the 
coast ofj lthis evidence does not demonstrate that his work has influenced the broader 
field of business or entrepreneurship. Here, the record does not include documentary evidence 
showing the widespread implementation of the Petitioner's work, that it has been seminal, or that it 
otherwise equates to an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on his forum and conference resentations. 
The record contains photographs of the Petitioner delivering a presentation about the 
c==lat a 2008 Port Authority Conference, and a presentation to franchisors a~b_o_u_t~------~ at theOForum Nacional de Franqueados. The Petitioner also provided a copy of those 
presentations. Further, information from the 2008 Port Authority Conference indicates that it was 
comprised of lectures related to offshore development in the port, and that "the target audience is the 
port workers ... and all civil society interested in the cause of the sector." 
The language of this criterion specifically requires display of the Petitioner's work at "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" ( emphasis added). The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his work was 
displayed at any artistic exhibitions or showcases consistent with the plain language of this regulatory 
criterion. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient documentary evidence establishing that conducting 
a lecture or seminar in a teaching or commercial environment equates to displaying his work at 
exhibitions or showcases that can be considered "artistic" in nature. 17 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
16 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din palt 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
17 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9-10. 
9 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, memberships, published 
material, judging, original contributions, and artistic display. Although he submits evidence for two 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high 
salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
reserve these issues. 18 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.19 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
18 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
19 In addition, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we 
need not determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and will not address the Director's separate finding with respect to that issue. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8205521 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 2, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a strategic port planner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center concluded, in the initial decision and on motion, that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or that he would continue work in his area of expertise in the United 
States. We dismissed his subsequent appeal, concluding that, while the evidence established that the 
Petitioner would continue work in his area of expertise, be had not submitted the required initial 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the Petitioner 
submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets three criteria in addition to the two criteria we 
found that he meets in our previous decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions to 
reconsider and reopen. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. A motion to reconsider must establish that our 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. The requirements of a 
motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 1 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a strategic port planner with more than 25 years of experience 
in maritime and civil infrastructure development. In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied the evidentiary requirements of only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating 
to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 2 
In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that he meets 
two of the previously claimed criteria, membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and 
original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), plus a third criterion, scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), that he had not previously claimed.3 The Petitioner asserts error in our findings 
regarding those previously claimed criteria, and presents additional documentation. Upon consideration 
of the Petitioner's claims and evidence on motion, we do not find that he has met any regulatory criteria 
beyond the two previously granted. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
2 On motion, the Petitioner does not claim to meet the previously claimed criterion related to published material in certain 
media at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
3 Because the Petitioner did not previously claim to have satisfied the scholarly articles criterion, we did not err by failing to 
consider it. A post-appellate motion to reopen is not the proper forum to advance new claims of eligibility that the Petitioner 
did not advance at any prior stage in the proceeding. We note that a petitioner abandons issues not raised on appeal. See 
Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 
2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the comi found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed 
to raise them on appeal to the AAO). Notwithstanding the foregoing, we further note that documentation regarding the 
Petitioner's master's thesis by which he claims to meet this criterion, indicating it has been digitally archived at the 
University ofl I library but is "not available from this repository", does not establish that the thesis was published 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
2 
In our appellate decision, we considered the Petitioner's membership in the World Association for 
Waterborne Transport Infrastructure (PIANC) and his position on the board of the Australian Logistics 
Council (ALC), but found that the Petitioner had not established that membership in those associations 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner does not contend that we erred in our determination 
concerning PIANC or ALC, nor does the Petitioner introduce new evidence relevant to that 
determination. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues for the first time that he meets this criterion based on his having been 
"recently appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of Directors of a distinguished company, I I" Regarding the new evidence of the Petitioner's membership, we note that 
this evidence postdates the filing of the petition in this matter. The Petitioner submits an email dated 
August 2018 from.__ ______ ___. group managing director fol'LJ conf~rmingl the Petitioner's 
intent to apply for the position oflndependent Director, and documents regardin board meetings 
in 2019 that the Petitioner attended as a director of the company. The Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his membership with~ occurred prior to or at the time of his initial filing in November 2017. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a 
future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 
1981 ), further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the 
filing of a petition." Id. at 176. We will therefore not consider this new evidence on motion. 
In light of the foregoing, the Petitioner did not establish, on motion, that he meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
In our appellate decision, we stated that the Petitioner had not identified specific contributions or 
shown those contributions to be of ma·or si nificance in the field. On motion, the Petitioner has 
submitted a new reference letter fro an architect and engineer, who worked with him 
on design projects including the~----~ marina in2006. I I asserts that the Petitioner's 
"master's degree research into advanced port planning techniques ... have helped set processes and 
standards in port planning internationally." He also references the Petitioner's work in the 
development ofthe~---~Future Study which he claims "has set the future ofl I sea 
based trade infrastructure for the next 100 years," and his development of "theoretical approaches and 
3 
models to the assessment of all kinds of ports and related infrastructure" and "cutting-edge techniques 
in broader infrastructure planning and design." This demonstrates that the Petitioner worked on high 
profile infrastructure planning projects, but the letter does demonstrate specifically what his original 
contributions are and how they amount to contributions of major significance. As stated in our 
previous decision, reference letters that do not provide specifics regarding the Petitioner's 
contributions and their impact on others in the field are insufficient to establish eligibility under this 
criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner resubmits copies of additional reference letters. The Petitioner does not, 
however, specifically argue that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. 
Disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to 
policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process 
by which the party may submit, in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally 
alleging error in the prior decision). This documentation has already been submitted, reviewed, and 
considered; accordingly, we will not address these letters in this proceeding. 
Further, on motion the Petitioner argues for the first time that he meets this criterion based on 
consulting work on additional projects, including thel I Container Terminal SaleJ I I !Independent Commercial ReviewJ I Shipping and Capacity Study, and 
the I !Terminals Sale, and submits several articles about those projects. We note that 
the evidence relating to those projects postdates the filing of the petition in this matter. As it appears 
that the Petitioner's work on those additional projects began in 2018 and 2019, after he filed his 
petition in November 2017, the evidence does not demonstrate that his claimed contributions to the 
field occurred prior to or at the time of his initial filing. Again, the Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 
45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 17 5 (Comm'r 1998). 
We will therefore not consider this new evidence on motion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
articles do not mention or otherwise refer to the Petitioner, and the record does not otherwise show 
specific contributions related to those projects attributable to the Petitioner that are of major 
significance in the field. 
Finally, on motion, the Petitioner provides "extraordinary ability background information" on the role 
of ports, the need to modernize U.S. Seaports, and the impact of port infrastructure on economic 
growth, including articles from the Journal of Shipping and Trade, and the websites www.issues.org, 
wwww.aapa-ports.org. www.oecd.org., and www.epa.gov. He also submits additional articles relating 
to various projects in which he had involvement includin the Port Future Study, the port 
planning stud~ for the Port Authority o ~----.------,.------'(I b, consulting to the Port oflwithl I Ports Corporation ~--~ The Petitioner does not explain, however, 
how those articles establish original contributions of major significance. The articles do not mention 
or otherwise refer to the Petitioner, and the record does not otherwise document specific contributions 
that are of major significance in the field that arose from his work. 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The assertions made by the Petitioner on motion do not establish that our previous decision was 
grounded in an incorrect application of law or policy. In addition, the new evidence submitted on 
motion does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrate his eligibility 
for this classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19205411 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 2, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but later revoked that 
approval on notice under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2. The Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had provided false information to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) regarding her plans to continue working in the area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal. After reviewing the record, we issued a notice of our 
intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal, notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the 
record of proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal, and her withdrawal 
request was granted. We also entered a separate finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact 
against the Petitioner. The matter is again before us on a motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion 
to reconsider. 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, we dismissed the appeal based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 1 Although we 
issued a NOID notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the record of proceeding, 
she did not acknowledge, discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in her withdrawal request. Our 
NOID gave the Petitioner an opportunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that, if she did not overcome this information, then 
we would make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. We further advised that, 
while the Petitioner had the right to withdraw the petition, such a withdrawal would not prevent a 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. The Petitioner responded to the NOID with a 
request to withdraw the appeal, but she did not address the above-referenced adverse findings in any 
way. 
We determined that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about her prior employment 
and claimed recording career, which was material to the adjudication of the petition. On motion, the 
Petitioner does not identify a law or policy that we may have incorrectly applied in entering our finding 
ofwillfol misrepresentation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Instead, the Petitioner generally disputes our 
determination, arguing that she was the victim of a dishonest record company and was unaware that 
her CDs included falsified images. She also asserts that USCIS must have misunderstood her 
explanations regarding her employment history. In support of the motion, she submits a copy of her 
2015 income tax return issued by the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine as evidence of her employment 
and earned income for that time period. 
The Petitioner's motion does not meet the applicable requirements of a motion to reconsider because 
it does not establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In particular, the Petitioner does not cite to any pertinent precedent decision, 
statute, regulation, binding federal court decision, USCIS policy statement, or other applicable 
authority to establish that the original decision was defective in some regard. Although she contends 
that she had no knowledge of the falsified artwork used on her CD covers, and that she either misstated 
or USCIS misunderstood her employment history, her motion provides no specific citations to 
applicable law nor does it clearly articulate on what basis she believes the conclusions in our prior 
decision finding she willfully misrepresented a material fact were erroneous. A motion that does not 
meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(6); Matter of Cintron. 16 l&N Dec. 9 
(BIA 1976). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19709470 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 02, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the area ofl !vehicle competition and recreation, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner now appeals that decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur with experience in several aspects of the motorsports 
industry. The record shows that he has competed in I competitions, organized! I 
vehicle expeditions, and written articles in a magazine dedicated to vehicles and travel. He 
served as the Business Development Director of I and was project manager for the 
company's magazineJ I He states that he intends to create a similar company in the 
United States, where his roles will be to build and coach an I motorsports team, set up an auto 
services company to prepare and rent vehicles for competition, and organize car tours in the United 
States, Ukraine and Russia. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets six additional evidentiary 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Director failed to consider 
some of the criteria claimed by the Petitioner and applied incorrect or unclear standards with regard 
to other requirements under this classification. 
We first note that although the Petitioner plainly claimed to meet the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (viii) in his initial filing, and added a claim to the criterion at 
1 The Director considered evidence of some of the Petitioner's awards as one-time achievements in his decision. but the 
Petitioner did not make that claim in his initial filing or in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), nor does 
he do so on appeal. 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) in responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Director's 
decision does not include an analysis of the evidence submitted under these criteria. 2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. 
In addition, when considering the evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director listed the evidence of 
the Petitioner's awards, but then noted requirements for the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) before concluding without analysis that this criterion was met. However, 
when considering evidence of a one-time achievement, the Director concluded that the 2019 
Award and the 2009 Cup ________ qualified as lesser 
nationally recognized awards, while others did not qualify because they were not awarded for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. Because this analysis references a different criterion 
and lacks a complete analysis of the evidence for each of the elements of this criterion, on remand the 
Director should clarify how the evidence of these awards was sufficient to meet this criterion. 
Further, when considering the evidence of published material about the Petitioner under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Director discounted two letters from officials of publications because 
"the authors of the letter[s] did not include a curriculum vitae to support the credibility of each author." 
We note that both letters were signed, dated, and written on the letterhead of the respective 
publications, and both were accompanied by complete and certified English translations. As the 
Director cited to no authority in discounting these letters due to the lack of an accompanying 
curriculum vitae, on remand he should consider these letters, together with the balance of the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, in determining whether the materials were published in 
qualifying media. 
Finally, with regard to whether the Petitioner met the requirement at section 203(b)(l)(iii) of the Act 
of showing that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States, we first note that 
the Director appears to conflate this requirement with the requirement at section 203(b )( 1 )(ii). As 
further explained under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), a petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that 
a noncitizen will continue in their area of expertise in the United States, which may include both letters 
from prospective employers and a detailed statement from the noncitizen concerning their plans. Here, 
as the Petitioner states on appeal, he has submitted both a detailed letter describing his plans to open 
a business focusing on both I competition and I I travel, and a letter from a photographer 
in the United States detailing plans to work with the Petitioner in conducting! I photographic 
tours. Therefore, this evidence demonstrates that he will continue to work in his field of endeavor in 
the United States. While the Director notes in his decision that the photographer does not work in the 
2 While we note that the Director's RFE included some discussion of two of these criteria, an RFE is not a final decision, 
and where as here the Petitioner submitted additional evidence and claims in response, it is based upon only a portion of 
the complete record. 
3 
Petitioner's field, he does not adequately explain his conclusion that the Petitioner's work with the 
photographer will not have substantial prospective benefits for the United States. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review 
that the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final merits 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he possesses the requisite sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a senior director in project management for a pharmaceutical company, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-S-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As that Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director held that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because he met three of the required criteria, the Director conducted a final merits determination and 
concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had risen to the very top of the field with 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
As to the evidentiary criteria, we agree with the Director's conclusions that the Petitioner meets the 
judging, scholarly articles, and high salary criteria. For judging, the record reflects that the Petitioner 
reviewed manuscripts for the journal Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology, and Medicine. For 
scholarly articles, the record shows that he published articles in the following journals: Enzyme 
Engineering, the Journal of Chromatography, and Biochemistry and Analytical Biochemistry. And 
for high salary, the record contains surveys from the American Association of Pharmaceutical 
Scientists indicating that the Petitioner's base salary is high in relation to those in his field. 1 This 
1 This conclusion on high salary is also supported by a report rrom the Project Management Institute in 2017 containing 
salary surveys for individuals in the project management field and documentation from the Career One Stop website, which 
is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor. 
2 
Matter of S-S-
demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether 
he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Petitioner received his bachelor of technology degree in chemical engineering from I.__ ____ _. 
University in India in 2003 and his doctorate degree in chemical engineering from the University of 
~----~in 2007. From 2008 to 2012, he was employed in positions overseeing pharmaceutical 
product development atl I in India, and he is currently employed as a "Senior 
Director -Project Management" for ~---------' in New York. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director focused only on the evidence of his judging and a 
discussion of patents, and that he did not consider the totality of the evidence submitted in the final 
merits discussion. Upon review of the record in its totality, and for the reasons set forth below, we 
determine that the Petitioner has established that he has sustained national or international acclaim and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field to show that he is "one of that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 3 
The record contains evidence of the Petitioner's membership on the scientific advisory council of the 
in India. The record contains three letters ~----------------------' signed by the president and the general secretary of the society describing its purpose and the 
Petitioner's role as a member of the council. These letters indicate that the so was founded in 2012 as 
an international forum for pharmaceutical scientists to share knowledge and that its members include 
"pharmaceutical scientists from the industry, academia, and government." The June 2018 letter refers 
to the "stringent and rigorous screening process" for the Petitioner's admission as a member of the I !scientific advisory council. One of these requirements is that the individual "should be very 
well recognized in the industry for his active participation in conferences and proceedings focused on 
the advancement of pharmaceutical dissolution sciences." The record contains evidence of several 
presentations the Petitioner gave at conferences focused on pharmaceutical developments in 2005 and 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner references evidence pertaining to the criteria for membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which we will consider in our final merits determination. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
3 
Matter of S-S-
2007 in Ohio and Pennsylvania. The record reflects that the Petitioner has served on the I~~ 
scientific advisory council since 2013. Since then, he has participated as a member of the society's 
round table discussion in I I India in October 2013, and that he chaired its session in I [ndia in 2016. Accordingly, the Petitioner's role on this council is a reflection of his 
international acclaim and recognition in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's participation as a judge of others' work, the record reflects that he reviewed 
manuscripts that were published in Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology, and Medicine. In 
addition to his editorial work, he reviews a large number of abstracts as a member of the scientific 
advisory council for I lin support of their conferences. This supports the other evidence in the 
record, demonstrating that the Petitioner has risen to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has made original contributions to the pharmaceutical industry through 
his work in filing patents, his role in overseeing pharmaceutical product development, and his 
collaboration with others in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner was the principal inventor 
for an approved patent while employed at s Laboratories with several others endrg. I II 
I vice president of the'---------~~-.---------- at -======~ .__ _____ __, discusses the importance of this patent for the company, indicating that it forms the 
basis for the commercial batches of one of its key products. Similarly, , the 
executive vice president and chief scientific officer at.__ ________ __., states that "[ w ]ithin 
six months of joining I I, [ the Petitioner] was asked to take up the responsibility of leading 
I I foray into generic injectable business by building a dedicated product development team." I ]then states that under the Petitioner's leadership, his team "has successfully secured 
[FDA] approval for nearly 15 drug products some of which are complex, high-barrier to entry and first 
to market generic products in the United States." I I adds that not only do these products 
"contribute annual revenue of more than $1 OOM for the organization," but they also provide 
affordability to the American consumers, which he notes "really signifies [the Petitioner's] 
contribution and research in the field of pharmaceutical drug delivery." 
The Petitioner also notes his collaboration with top leaders in the field. In a letter from ._I __ ___. 
.__ ____ _.the chair of pharmaceutical sciences at the University ofi I he states that "[the 
Petitioner] is one of the few industrial experts renowned for his accomplishments in the field of 
complex peptide characterization." I ~ adds that "[the Petitioner] actively consults and 
also provides guidance to academia and industrial personnel associated with the characterization of 
complex peptides, proteins and biosimilar drugs." The record also contains a letter froml I 
I O I the president and principal consultant for I I LLC, who previously 
worked for the FDA reviewing "industry submissions for new biologics [biological drugs]." She states 
that in her subsequent role as a consultant, she has collaborated with the Petitioner in the development 
of biosimilars, which she indicates are "a class of biologics that are similar to an already approved, 
marketed product." She states that biosimilars "are usually produced in a living system, such as a 
microorganism or animal cell," which brings additional challenges to the manufacturing process and 
requires specialized expertise in "molecular and cell biology, microbiology, protein biochemistry, 
immunology, sterile injectable manufacturing processes, and their formulation in addition to FDA 
regulatory requirements [that] are needed for decision making .... " She discusses the role that the 
Petitioner has played in developing biosimilars for two specific products in particular, adding that "he 
4 
Matter of S-S-
has the specialized expertise to bring these products to patients in the [United States]" and that his 
leadership skills "have allowed ,___ _______ __, .... the ability to fill their pipeline with 
promising biosimilars." She notes that she has collaborated with many companies and their staff in 
developing these products, adding that 'I I is fortunate to have [the Petitioner] leading their 
program." This further demonstrates that the Petitioner's original contributions are an indication that 
he has risen to the very top of his field and that his achievements have been recognized in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's scholarly articles, he notes that these have appeared in highly regarded 
journals in the fields of biochemical and biological science. The record reflects that his scholarly 
articles were published in Enzyme Engineering, the Journal o_f Chromatography, and Biochemistry 
and Analytical Biochemistry. In a letter from I I, the president and chief scientific officer 
atl I LLC, he states that "[the Petitioner] is one of the leading experts in I I 
process development and complex product characterization and has a couple of articles in this field 
that are currently under different stages of review." When viewed together with the documentation in 
the record showing that the Petitioner has risen to the very top of his field, this evidence that he 
continues to author scholarly articles is an indication of his recognition in the field. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has performed leading or critical roles in product development 
atl I Laboratories and I I. The letters in the record discuss the details 
of the Petitioner's work in expanding each company's research and development (R&D) laboratories 
and in facilitating the submission of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for newly 
developed generic products to the FDA The record reflects that the Petitioner has brought significant 
revenue to these companies in successfully leading their product development teams. In a letter from I I chief executive officer of I I who formerly worked forD I Laboratories, he states that the Petitioner's most significant accomplishment at I I 
Laboratories involved setting up the "R&D facility for the Center of Excellence- Peptide and Polymer 
product Development." He states, "[the Petitioner] designed the entire R&D facility and ensured that 
it was equipped [with] state of the art instruments needed for the development of these extremely 
complex biopharmaceutical drug products." At ~-------~ the company's managing 
director, I I indicates in his letter that "[the Petitioner] is part of a rarified group of scientists 
who possess the wide array of expertise on different aspects of formulation development, device 
development, biosimilar development, operations, quality management and also advanced analytical 
characterization." He adds, "[i]n a period of close to 5 years, [the Petitioner] has established the entire 
R&D and manufacturing facility, has built a team of more than 100 scientists and filed close to 50 
Abbreviated New Drug Applications with FDA and secured approval for close to 15 such products." 
The Petitioner's leadership within these companies is an indication that he has risen to the very top of 
the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, for high salary, including his bonuses, the documentation in the record indicates that the 
Petitioner's salary is high in relation to those in his field. This is another way in which the field 
recognizes his achievements. For the reasons discussed above, and in the totality of the evidence, the 
Petitioner has established that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field to show that he is "one of that small percentage who 
[has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3).4 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 13. 
5 
Matter of S-S-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of S-S-, ID# 2591391 (AAO June 4, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11823566 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 04, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate his 
sustained national or international acclaim and establish that he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-
376 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television director active in the Chinese teleyision industry The record reflects 
that he began work as a director in 2005 on the television serie~ I and that he ~----~ continued to do so during the pendency of the instant petition. 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) relating to published material, judging, and to authorship of 
scholarly articles. First, the Petitioner provides an interview published in The Beijing News in which 
he discusses his work as a producer, as well as circulation statistics for and information about The 
Beijing News and other comparable media demonstrating that it is a major media publication. 
Accordingly, he has established his eligibility for the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Next, the record includes the Petitioner's invitation to judge the 20171 I 
.__ _ ___.I A wards and a certificate of appreciation confirming that he did so, showing that he satisfies 
the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Finally, the Petitioner submits evidence 
establishing that he meets the scholarly criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) through publication of 
articles in China Television and Contemporary TV and by providing documentation establishing that 
China Television and Contemporary TV are professional publications. Accordingly we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner meets has satisfied the criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), 
and (vi). 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he also satisfies the additional evidentiary criteria related to 
membership, leading or critical role in an organization with a distinguished reputation, and commercial 
2 
success found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii),(viii), and (x). 1 As the Petitioner established that he meets 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria, we need not reach a finding on these additional criteria here. 
We will address the evidence submitted by the Petitioner regarding these criteria in the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
Regarding published material about the Petitioner, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner 
about his work as a producer for the television series I I published in The Beijing News 
and two articles published in People's Daily. It also includes objective evidence sufficient to show 
that The Beijing News and People's Daily qualify as major media. With respect to a fourth article in 
the record, published online at toutiao.com, upon review, we note that it appears to focus on fonding 
I I rather than on the Petitioner himself. The record also contains articles published in 
L~fe Week, Guangming Dail]' and Liaoshen Evening News about the Petitioner and his work as a 
producer fo~~-----~television series. 
Upon review, the Petitioner does not submit documentation showing that the seven articles, published 
over the course of a 15-year career in the television industry, are consistent with the sustained national 
or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. The submitted media 
coverage shows that the Petitioner has received media recognition for producing multiple seasons of 
I Ian endeavor beginning in 2006. However, the Petitioner works in a high-profile 
industry in which most, if not all, projects receive media coverage to some extent. Without evidence 
that sets him apart from others in this field, the Petitioner has not established how the submission of 
these articles about him demonstrates that he is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed 
regulations implementing section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a 
very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring 
the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 
56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
With regard to the Petitioner's scholarly articles, he provides abstracts of articles published in the 
China Television and Contemporary TV and documentation about the intended audiences for these 
publications sufficient to show that they are professional publications. The Petitioner farther submits 
evidence from the China Academic Journals database (CNKI) showing that his most frequently 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that he had not satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). We therefore deem the issue waived and do not address it in our analysis. 
3 
downloaded China Television article has been retrieved 243 times. This evidence demonstrates that 
the Petitioner's work has received some recognition from others. However, the record does not include 
evidence sufficient to establish that CNKI' s core users are persons in his field of endeavor. Instead, 
the Petitioner provides CNKI documentation identifying the database's core users as "ranging from 
top universities, research institutes, government think-tanks" among others, but this document does 
not indicate that the persons downloading his articles are in the field of filmmaking or his work has 
greatly influenced or impacted others in the field. Without evidence showing the significance of this 
statistical data, the Petitioner has not established that the downloads of his scholarly articles reflect 
recognition in his field in a manner consistent one who is among "that small percentage who [has] 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to the judging criterion, the Petitioner argues on appeal that his participation as a judge 
for thd I Awards is indicative of his sustained national or international acclaim as 
"only the top talent is invited to participate." As we note above, the Petitioner provided evidence 
showing that in 201 7 he served on the judging committee responsible for selecting thel I 
.__ _ ___.I Awards semi-final round nominees. A review of the record farther establishes that the 
Petitioner has achieved some national acclaim for his selection as a juror, as evidenced by a news 
article about thd , I Award semi-final jury in which he is identified by name, along 
with other notable actors and directors. 
However, the evidence discussed above does not address how this single instance of judging is 
indicative of national or international acclaim maintained over a long period of time. For example, 
the Petitioner has not offered evidence sufficient to show that he has continued to receive recognition 
for his participation as a judge in a manner reflecting sustained national acclaim. 2 He therefore has 
not shown that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized in his field of expertise, as required. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in organizations requiring outstanding achievements of their 
members, the Petitioner provided evidence of membership in the China Television Artists' Association 
(CTAA), including his membership card, the bylaws, and information about the CTAA executive 
committee. However, the Petitioner did not show how membership in the CTAA indicates that he 
has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor. He does not provide evidence, for example, to show 
how his membership in CT AA sets him apart from others in the field of television production or 
direction such that his membership is consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner 
does not submit evidence demonstrating that he has received sustained national or international 
acclaim for his CTAA membership. 
With respect to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, we first note that the record includes 
inconsistent documentation related to the companies for which the Petitioner worked and his role at 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that in 
determining whether the petitioner has enjoyed "sustained" national or international acclaim, the officer should consider 
that such acclaim must be maintained. and referencing Black's Law Dictionary's (11th ed. 2019), definition of sustain as 
"to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in making ( an effort) over a long period of 
time.") 
4 
these companies. For example, with his initial filing, the Petitioner provided a document titled 
"Certificate of Critical Role" fro vice president ofl I 
's information sheet from the China TV Production ~---~ 
Industry Associa~) website and his CTPIA member biography identifying him as president q I indicates tha~~----~lwas established in 2010 and that the Petitioner 
has been serving as s president since August 2010. 
In contrast, with his response to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner submitted a 
"Certificate of Critical Role" fro vice resident of ~~-----~--------~ ~----------------------' ~-----~ s organization chart, the 
entity's CTPIA information sheet, and the Petitioner's CTPIA member introduction identifying him 
as a producer and president of1 I The record also includes documentation indicating 
thatl lwas founded in August 2010. In other words, the record contains two 
"Certificates of Critical Role" issued by two different companies, by two different individuals serving 
as the vice presidents, and identifying the Petitioner in different roles. The Petitioner must resolve 
these inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth 
lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner does not explain the 
relationship betwee~ I andl I, or otherwise offer documentation to resolve 
these inconsistencies in a manner allowing us to determine the roles he played for either entity. Even 
were we to view this evidence in the most favorable light and conclude that the Petitioner performed 
work for both of these companies simultaneously, he does not offer evidence sufficient to establish 
that his roles for them have garnered national or international acclaim in the field consistent with one 
who is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Regarding the Petitioner's role as a producer forl i,I I describes the Petitioner's 
duties as participating in "the investment, production, and distribution" of a number of television 
programs. On the other hand, as a producer fotj 11 I notes that the Petitioner 
led a team to develop a "precise calculation and estimation of the ro · ect cost and cycle" forl I I I and "successfully met the ~udget" for each of productions. Although 
the certificates prepared b~ I and~---~ provide etai e examp es of how the Petitioner's 
work benefits their respective companies, these documents do not discuss how the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim for this work. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's role as president ofl ll I describes the Petitioner's 
responsibilities as "developing and implementing the company's overall strategy and annual business 
plan" and "establishing and improving the company's management system and organizational 
structure." I I similarly describes the Petitioner's role asl l's president as 
being responsible for "taking charge of the company's daily operation and management" and 
"achieving company's management objectives and development goals." However, these certificates 
do not discuss whether these duties have garnered the Petitioner national or international acclaim 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he drew significant attention from the 
field for duties performed in his roles as producer for and president of eithe~ I orD I ~ for these roles, or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
5 
The record also includes a letter of recommendation from a film and television art 
director who indicates in his letter that he will work with the Petitioner o '--.,...-------,------=---' In his 
letter) I describes the Petitioner as a producer who considers "the creation cycle and production 
cost ... from the perspective of improving the artistic quality of the work" and notes that the Petitioner 
"has successfully produced and broadcasted"I ll I also states thatl I 
.__ ____ ..... I "received good ratings and reputation" and "accumulated a lot of fans, which has also 
been reco nized b the industry" and notes that the series has received man awards including the 
25th Award for Outstandin iven to and the 27th 
Upon review, the record corroborates these statements and shows that this award is granted to 
1 · · production teams. However, the record also shows that I I and~ 
ere among many television programs receiving these awards in their respective ye~ 
not differentiate between the Petitioner's work and that of the other television program 
awardees. In addition, the Petitioner does not provide evidence showing how the receipt of awards 
given to multiple shows sets him apart from that of other producers. Without evidence setting the 
Petitioner's work as a producer apart from that of others, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate 
that he is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
c= hmber stjtes that I lwas awarded the 25th I I Award for ~ .... ____ _._ and the 27th I IA ward for Best I I The record lacks 
evidence demonstrating that these awards are conferred on television production teams, or otherwise 
showing how awards granted for I I and fo~ I reflect the Petitioner's sustained 
acclaim in the field of television production. 
FinallyJ !indicates thaJ I was awarded the 30th! I Award (2013-
2015) for Outstanding! I However, the record contains inconsistent evidence wij regardl 
to this award. With his initial petition, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that 
received this award; with his response to the Director's RFE he offered evidence demonstrating 
'----~--~ ..... was this award's recipient. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in 
the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92. Without evidence resolving this inconsistency, we cannot determine if: asl !attests, 
the Petitioner received this award for his role as producer orl I reflecting his sustained 
national or international acclaim in his field. 
µa].ly, regarding the commercial success criterion, the Petitioner provides a letter from 
L__J financial director of.__ ______ __. certifying the commercial value ofL_ __ .r-----, 
series, a printout from The World of Chinese website rankin as one of the D television shows of 201 7 broadcast ratin s for an .__ ______ _. and a 
discussion of "click rates" for In his letter~--~ includes DVD sales figures 
reflecting the commercial success o .__ _____ _.and the television ratings demonstrate that this 
program has been widely viewed. Accordingly the record reflects tha~ ]has achieved 
some degree of commercial success. 
6 
However, the Petitioner does not offer evidence demonstrating that he has been recognized in the field 
for this success. For example, althougtj I attributes the high quality o~ Ito the 
Petitioner in his role as "president of our company and Executive Producer" of the series and asserts 
that the program has "achieved good social and economic benefits and commercial returns with high 
ratings, high reputation and high popularity," he does not explain how the Petitioner has been 
recognized in the field for these achievements or has otherwise garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim for them. See 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3). Further, the Petitioner does not offer 
evidence showing how this television program's commercial success sets him apart from that of the 
success of other programs, and therefore other producers in his field of endeavor. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the classification sought. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director erred in concluding that 
he was not coming to work in his area of extraordinary ability. However, for the reasons discussed 
above, the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act. As such we need not determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(a)(ii) of the Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 4, 2024 In Re: 31200938 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral associate in physics at an American university who seeks classification 
as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he warranted an approval considering the totality of the 
evidence that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. The 
Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 
25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of 
Christo 's Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field ofendeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three ofthe regulatory criteria 
relating to judging, original contributions, and authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied all three of those criteria, but he did not demonstrate 
eligibility in a final merits determination. The Director determined he did not demonstrate his 
sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met this classification's stringent 
requirements in the final merits determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude he did not demonstrate that he qualifies for this immigrant classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not offer analysis under any of the individual criteria, we will not address those 
here other than to indicate it was the Director's determination that the Petitioner submitted the requisite 
initial evidence. Now, we will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze the Petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See also 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual B.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the 
petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of 
2 
the immigrant classification). In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner earned his PhD in 2013 and was a postdoctoral associate as part of his university's 
postdoctoral program when he filed this petition. We observe that this position is in keeping with a scholar 
and researcher in the early part of his career rather than one who has risen to the very top of their field of 
endeavor. 1 As indicated above, the Director determined that the Petitioner served as a judge of others' 
work, made original contributions in his field, and authored scholarly articles. The record, however, 
does not demonstrate that his personal and professional achievements rise to a level of a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
In the denial, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim in the initial filing that he performed peer 
review at least 60 times, but he failed to provide evidence to support those claims. The Director further 
concluded the Petitioner completed 14 manuscript reviews as of the petition filing date. The Director 
indicated that whether the correct number of reviews was 14 or 60, the Petitioner did not establish that 
his judging experience was reflective of a career of acclaimed work in the field. 
On appeal-as he also did in his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE)-the Petitioner 
states that the Director did not follow guidelines within the USCIS Policy Manual because, according to 
the Petitioner, the Director identified specific kinds of evidence he should have submitted but did not. 
We do not agree with the Petitioner that the Director adjudicated the petition in a manner that is contrary 
to USCIS policy. The USCIS Policy Manual provides: 
An officer may not limit the kind of evidence the officer thinks the person should be able 
to submit and deny the petition ifthat particular type ofevidence ... is absent, ifthe person 
nonetheless submitted other types of evidence that meet the regulatory requirements for 
the classification. 
For example, an officer may think that if a person is extraordinary, there should be 
published articles about the person and the person's work. However, an officer cannot 
deny the petition because no published articles were submitted, so long as the petitioner 
has submitted other evidence that meets the three qualifying criteria which demonstrates 
the person is in fact extraordinary. Approval or denial of a petition is based on the type 
and quality of evidence submitted rather than assumptions about the failure to address 
different criteria. 
1 The National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation define a postdoctoral scholar as one who has 
received a doctoral degree ( or equivalent) and is engaged in a temporary and defined period ofmentored advanced training 
to enhance the professional skills and research independence needed to pursue his or her chosen career path. Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) Research Training and Career Development, National Institutes of Health, 
https ://researchtraining.nih.gov /resources/faq#Research- Training-and-Career- Development? anchor=question5 6806. 
Postdoctoral scholars also train under the direction and supervision of faculty mentors in preparation for academic or 
research careers. Appointment Policy Highlights, UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars, 
https://www.postdoc.ucla.edu/resources/appointment-infmmation/appointment-types-and-criteria/. 
3 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. What the policy 
prohibits is an officer presuming that if a foreign national actually has extraordinary ability, they should 
be able to produce evidence for one ofthe specific categories ofevidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
but did not. For instance, the Director is prohibited from denying this petition because it was the 
adjudicating officer's opinion that this Petitioner should have received awards for his research work, but 
he did not offer evidence to satisfy the prizes or awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) under step 
one when evaluating the individual criteria. 
That is not the situation we identify in the Director's denial when they evaluated the Petitioner's judging 
experience in the final merits determination. The Director noted that peer review is a routine element in 
the Petitioner's field and that participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate 
eligibility in a final merits determination. The Director specifically indicated that without evidence that 
sets the Petitioner apart from others in his field, "such as evidence that he has a consistent history of 
completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, or chaired a technical committee 
for a reputable conference, the petitioner has not established his peer review experience places him among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor." Here, we do not consider the Director's 
conduct to go against the guidance listed in the USCIS Policy Manual. 
The Petitioner's other appellate arguments relating to his peer review experience consists of the Director 
attributing an incorrect number to the instances in which he has performed peer review, that noteworthy 
journals relied on his expertise to perform peer review, and the field's view that he is an expert as 
represented by his appointment to an editorial board for Frontiers, an academic publisher. 
The Director's decision questioned the Petitioner's claim in the initial filing that he performed peer review 
in at least 60 instances because the record did not contain evidence supporting that assertion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner notes the Director did not mention documentation from Clarivate's Web of Science 
platform "documenting at least 45 reviews." First, the Petitioner does not address the inconsistent number 
ofinstances he claimed he judged the work ofothers through peer review that he offered within the initial 
filing versus his account in the appeal brief Reviewing the record reveals that the Petitioner claimed 
within the initial filing that "[t]he field has recognized [his] authority by inviting him to review and 
evaluate the work of his peers no fewer than 60 times," but on appeal he claims 45 instances. And we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not identify the evidence that might corroborate his assertion 
ofperforming peer review at least 60 times. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner provided a Clarivate Web of Science printout reflecting he performed peer 
review of 27 manuscripts. As a side note, this evidence shows he has 45 peer review records, but 
Clarivate's website provides the following information accounting for the difference between 27 and 45 
instances of peer review: 
Are reviews ofrevisions considered separate reviews? 
Each round ofpeer review of a single manuscript is considered separately. Ifyou review 
a manuscript for a second or third time, we will assign you a separate review record for 
each. 
4 
When multiple reviews of one manuscript have been performed by a single author we 
concatenate them on the detail page (if the paper and review are both published). 
Managing Peer Reviews, Clarivate Web of Science Help (2023), 
https://webofscience.help.clarivate.com/en-us/Content/peer-review-in-0-researcher-profile.html. As a 
result, we conclude the Petitioner's actual peer review experience at the time he filed the petition was 27. 
We now tum the discussion to I I a research publisher whose website reflects the organization 
publishes 231 journals. The Petitioner served as a "review editor" for I I But, despite the 
Petitioner's claim to the contrary, he did not identify any evidence demonstrating he received any acclaim, 
attention, or recognition from his service as a judge or peer reviewer for this entity. As a result, the 
Petitioner did not show that he is considered among his peers to be one of the top reviewers based on his 
service at I 2 Here, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how serving as a "review 
editor"-essentially performing peer review-on the editorial board ofl I shows his acclaim or 
that he is among the top percentage ofthose performing such judging duties in the field. 
Evaluating the significance of the Petitioner's judging experience is acceptable under Kazarian, 596 F. 
3d at 1121-22, to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B. l (indicating that an 
individual's participation as a judge should be evaluated to determine whether it was indicative ofbeing 
one ofthat small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor and enjoying sustained 
national or international acclaim). 
Finally, although his service is important, we are not persuaded that because the small number of 
noteworthy journals the appeal brief names relied on his expertise to perform a nominal amount of peer 
review, that this is representative of one who is among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner's peer review spanned just under six years resulting in him reviewing 27 manuscripts. As 
the Director noted and the Petitioner has not sufficiently refuted, without evidence distinguishing the 
Petitioner's judging experience from others in the field-such as proof of receiving and completing 
independent review requests from a significant number ofjournals or conferences, serving in an editorial 
capacity for a distinguished journal, or chairing a technical committee for a reputable conference-we 
cannot determine that he is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Regarding the Petitioner's remaining appellate claims, the level at which his contributions have impacted 
his field as a whole, is the determining factor as to whether he is among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and has sustained national or international acclaim at such 
2 1 I utilizes what appears to be a unique method of allowing researchers to join their editorial board, as it solicits new 
members on its website. See Join our editorial community, (2024), https:/ ~ditors/join-as-editor. 
This method seemingly tends to diminish the prestige of serving on one oftheir editorial boards, when evaluating such service 
for the purpose of this highly restrictive immigrant classification. We further observe that does not appear to use a 
traditional editorial board structure as it includes those performing peer review on its "editorial board." Traditionally, peer 
reviewers are not members of an academic j oumal' s editmial board, butl Icreated an alternative strncture and assigned 
titles to peer reviewers making it appear they are. 
5 
an elevated level. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he is among 
the top researchers in his field because (1) the rate at which others in his field cited to his work, (2) top 
publications published his research, and (3) others in the field have relied on his findings. While the 
Director decided the Petitioner met the regulatory requirements within step one, they did not agree that 
he showed he has received widespread recognition for his achievements and is viewed by the field as 
having a career of acclaimed work in the second step; the final merits determination. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents arguments similar to those he advanced before the Director, asserting 
much of his evidence was either not considered or was improperly discounted. We begin with the 
Petitioner's citation record as of the petition filing date on June 27, 2023. The Petitioner submitted his 
Google Scholar profile listing his total number of citations and the Clarivate InCites Essential Science 
Indicators chart listing the median citation rates for those in the Petitioner's field from 2013-2023. The 
Google Scholar profile reflected 31 published works in between 2009 and 2023, with only one paper that 
garnered a good number of citations and a total of only four publications above the median number of 
citations. In support of the claim that his citation rate is high compared to other physicists, the Petitioner 
provided the Clarivate InCites Essential Science Indicators chart listing the median citation rates for those 
in the Petitioner's field from 2013-2023. The Petitioner focuses on 2017, the year in whichl I I !published his most cited paper. 
The Petitioner's single most cited paper garnered recognition significantly above the median in that year. 
However, this single achievement, even when combined with the Petitioner's remaining research findings 
does not rise to the level of those in the top of his field. Simply because the Petitioner's remaining work 
was "original" in that it did not merely duplicate prior research is not useful in setting him/her apart 
through a "career of acclaimed work." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). That report also 
requires that "an alien must (I) demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim in the sciences, 
arts, education, business or athletics (as shown through extensive documentation) ...." Id. Without 
some showing that this single published work was unusually influential or pioneering in the field and it 
placed the Petitioner among the top leaders in his area, we will not limit our analysis to a single published 
work, in a single year, for a single research field. 
Instead, the Petitioner should demonstrate that the entirety of his publication record illustrates his 
sustained acclaim at a national or international level, which places him among those in the top ofhis field. 
But he did not make such a showing in this petition filing. Nor do we agree with the Petitioner that-based 
on this same evidence focusing on these same limitations ofone paper, in a single year-he has adequately 
compared his citation record with other physicists because proving you had four published works cited 
above the field's median falls far short of this classification's demands. 
The Petitioner also notes his works were published in top publications associated with a high impact 
factor. While we agree it is notable that he was published in a few top ranked journals, this is simply not 
enough. Of the Petitioner's 17 published works, two papers from 2009 and 2013 were in highly ranked 
3 Based on the present record, and the lack of analysis from the Director within step one under the regulatory criterion, it 
does not appear that the Petitioner submitted evidence sufficient to satisfy the regulation's requirements 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). But, (1) in the interest of finalizing this case without unnecessary delay, and (2) because the Director's 
decision did not contain analysis for us to evaluate, and (3) because it does not appear that a remand would result in a 
different outcome for this petition, we will not take the steps for the Director to reevaluate their determination under the 
step one regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
6 
journals listing him as the primary author. We note the Petitioner did not provide evidence of those 
journals' ranking in 2009 or 2013 and considering those publications occurred more than a decade before 
he filed the petition, this lack of evidence has a detrimental effect on the probative nature ofhis evidence 
and on his claims. As the evidence is dated and not sufficiently corroborated, and because it was a limited 
number of published works in highly ranked journals in which the Petitioner was the primary author, it 
does not adequately advance his claims here. 
Further, a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. 
However, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's research being published in a journal 
with a high impact factor shows that his work has been widely recognized in the field. He therefore 
has not shown that the publication ofhis articles in these journals has garnered national or international 
acclaim. Overall, the Petitioner has not shown this experience places him among the small percentage at 
the top of the field, nor does it illustrate that he has demonstrated sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner presented four recommendation letters with the initial filing and four more in response to 
the RFE. Within the final merits determination, the Director discussed the content from two ofthe letters 
then summarized their findings relating to all ofthe letters. Now, the Petitioner identifies four letters and 
offers the portions from them that he indicates the Director disregarded. We note the Director's denial 
did discuss two of the four letters the Petitioner identifies on appeal. 
Pertaining to the first letter the Petitioner identifies on appeal, he alleges that the Director: 
[I]gnores the fact that [the author's] statements are based on personal familiarity with the 
work in question: "[The Petitioner'sJ research and the manner in which he conducts it 
have had a tremendous influence on my own mathematical models. From experience, I 
have come to understand the skillset and ability required to perform such rigorous 
investigations." These statements show that [the Petitioner] provided specific examples 
ofthe major significance of [his] work based on personal expertise. 
(Emphasis in original). The Petitioner's appellate claims relating to the three remaining letters bear a 
resemblance to the above quote. 
To show the Petitioner's contributions have been of major significance in the field, his claims should not 
focus on his work's influence on a few individual researchers' work. Other researchers' reliance on the 
Petitioner's work is a positive element and can be a method to corroborate the assertion that his 
noteworthy influence on other's work establishes that his contributions in the field are of major 
significance within step one, under the individual criterion. But within step two under the final merits 
portion, petitioners should establish that the broader field has relied on their findings and that reliance 
rises to the level of this classification's overall requirements. While this Petitioner's work is valuable, 
when considering the totality of the evidence, the degree at which others have used his work to test their 
hypotheses falls short of demonstrating (1) that his achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise through extensive documentation or (2) that his level of expertise places him among the small 
percentage at the very top ofhis field. 
7 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The 
Petitioner's evidence confirms that he has made notable contributions in his field and performed peer 
review. However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of 
his national or international acclaim and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in 
the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive 
documentation exhibiting he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage 
that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-M-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 5, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an artist and repertoire (A&R) executive, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of G-M-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner fas working as senior director for A&R atl I a 
label of I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she 
has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the original contributions and leading 
or critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), respectively. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she also meets the commercial successes in the performing arts criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Upon review, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
2 
Matter of G-M-M-
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner indicated that she has contributed original acts to the music industry, stating: 
[W]ithout [the Petitioner's] identifying eyle, visirn and guidance, the music industry 
would not have artists such asl I I to name a few, 
as we know them today. It is her original thought, her original interactions, her original 
visions, work sessions, her pep talks, and overall actions etc. that spawned these 
original acts and, but for her actions, they would not be part of the industry as we know 
them. 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted information about musicians she claims to 
have developed and various letters of support discussing her work in the music industry. In order to 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that her particular contributions have widely influenced the field, have 
remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. As 
discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions 
that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
The record includes letters from the Petitioner's professional associates asserting that she has made 
original contributions in the music industry.1 For instance) ,I a senior executive for I I an entertainment agency that represents songwriters, producers, 
artists, mixers, and engineers, indicated that the Petitioner "identified the raw talent in and signed 
'1======.---_along with overseeing successful campaigns for Grammy Nominated I I I and British pop sensation! 1"2 He further stated that "those original contributions 
to the industry are because of [ the Petitioner]." Similarly J l partner atl I I l, a law firm representing music industry clients, contended that the Petitioner 
has "brought original contributions to the music business, finding and contributing to the development 
of several recording artists. She has worked with and made meaningful contributions to the careers of 
I 11 ~ I 11 11 I and several others." The 
evidence, however, is not sufficient to demonstrate that the success of the aforementioned artists was 
attributable to the Petitioner's A&R role, nor does the record show that her specific work with them 
rises to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work withl 11 l Senior Partner atl I I I a law firm that represents talent in the sports and entertainment industries, stated that 
1 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 The record does not include letters of support rrom these four music artists discussing the Petitioner's impact on their 
careers or other corroborating evidence to supp01t the references' claims that her work with these artists cons~ 
contributions of major significance in the field. For example, while the record contains various media articles aboutl__J 
and her interactions with others in the recording industry, these aiticles do not mention the Petitioner or her effect on I I development as a performing artisj' Reyrdless, the aiticles and other evidence in the record are insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work with was of major significance in the field. 
3 
Matter of G-M-M-
the Petitioner "identified, signed and developed! Her early work activated his path to 
stardom, and the music industry will never be the same. I cannot overstate the impact [the Petitioner] 
had onl I career, and ultimately the impact that had on the industry as a whole." While the 
Petitioner provided information about I I from articles in Billboard, Wall Street Journal, 
Rolling Stone, Variety, Esquire, and Wikipedia, these articles do not mention the Petitioner or her ~n his · reer. For exam le, the article in Wikipedia states: "After I I sister §m ~ pla ed demo for the A&R at I I, 
summoned to..______,,----,- _ _.' This article further indicated that songwriter and producer I l"introduced to his future A&R manager at.___ _______ ~~-___.' The 
record does not include sufficient information or evidence to show that the Petitioner's work with D ~ constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. 
With res ect to the Petitioner's involvement with.___ _____ ____., I I president of 
~--.======'....:.:a_rroducer and songwriter management com,any, indicated that the Petitioner 
managed~----~ while working tori J. He asserted that the Petitioner 
oversaw and facilitated "the songwriting sessions and the release campaign for I I album ~------~ which debuted the Billboard chart at #3 and achieved Platinum status, and a 
Grammy Nomination." The record includes articles aboutl I in Daily Mail, Billboard, 
and Wikipedia, but they do not mention the Petitioner or her work on the aforementioned album. 
Nonetheless, the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work on that album 
rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In regard to the Petitioner's management of I 11 I, a music artist and 
songwriter, stated that the Petitioner's leadership helped I I break "onto the [United Kingdom] 
market with huge impact and success, topping the charts and becoming the biggest new British pop 
sensation of that time." Additionally, she indicated: "[The Petitioner] reco[nize1 that my songwriting 
style would ble a per1ect fit for the sound and direction that she was guiding towards .... I ended 
up becoming main writing partner and landed 3 songs on her debut album, which debuted at 
#2 on the UK Album Chart." While I I asserted that the Petitioner's management 
helped! I become successful and facilitated their songwriting partnership, the record does not 
show that the Petitioner's guidance of I land work on her debut album represent contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The references' statements and articles relating to the aforementioned artists are not sufficient to show 
that the Petitioner's specific A&R work has widely influenced the recording industry or has otherwise 
risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. Without sufficient evidence 
demonstrating that her particular work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the 
field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The evidence shows that as senior director for A&R au I the Petitioner has performed 
in a critical role for a distinguished organization. Accordingly, the record supports the Director's 
finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
Matter of G-M-M-
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner contends that she "has originated, developed and contributed original artistic acts to the 
music industry" and that the success of these acts "must be attributed to [ the Petitioner] because she 
is the genesis of it." In his letter of support,! btated: 
[The Petitioner and I worked closel to ether with 
songs: to create the ori inal 
.__ ____ ___. which formed their debut record '.__ ______ ~ "' The record is 
certified 4 x Platinum, it spent over a year in the ARIA [ Australian Recording Industry 
Association] Albums Chart, reached #2 on the ARIA album chart, and was nominated 
for 3 x ARIA A wards. [The Petitioner] was instrumental in the launch of their career 
in America and internationally. 
In ~d===: letter indicated that he and the Petitioner "are working together on emerging 
artist c= I and that the Petitioner "has been instrumental in developing I I as a 
songwriter." He further noted that the Petitioner "strategically formulates and creates the session 
collaborations forl I to be able to write incredible material that result in son cuts and releases 
with major recording artists" such as.__ _____ ___, I ,I and I I 
I ~lso asserted that "[ w ]ithout the Petitioner's work, the smash hit '~-~ written by I I and released by pop groupl J would not have happened. It has achieved massive 
commercial success, double platinum status, [and] was a top 5 single" in the United Kingdom. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." Moreover, the 
evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial 
successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 3 Here, the record does 
not include a tracklist or credits for I I or 1 t identifying the Petitioner as 
having created or substantially contributed to these recordings. Nor is the evidence sufficient to 
demonstrate that the commercial successes of the above artists are mostly attributable to the Petitioner 
rather than their own musical talent. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a letter froml l partner atl I 
"a global talent agency based id I" He indicates that he has "been working withl I 
since [the Petitioner] brought them to my attention in 2010." I I further explains that he 
is "responsible for procuring their shows and privy to their live touring earnings, and can attest to the 
fact that in 2015 they earned $8,126,060. In 2016 they earned $6,824,953 and in 2017 they earned 
$4
1879,250 in touring alone." Additionally, he contends that the Petitioner "is integrally responsible 
for! I success as she played a creative and pivotal role in discovering, pac1agingj and 
1makingl 
the group what it is today." While the record includes a letter of support from and 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 11-12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/po !icy-memoranda. 
5 
Matter of G-M-M-
~-~!expressing gratitude to the Petitioner for helping to launch their music careers, the evidence is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that their 2015-2017 tour earnings are attributable to the Petitioner's 
specific work. Instead, ~---------~ tour earnings are attributable to their music 
performances and reflect their commercial successes. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established that she satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her A&R work are indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
6 
Matter of G-M-M-
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of G-M-M-, ID# 2990891 (AAO June 5, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 5, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he only met two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of W-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist. As he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the criteria for awards 
or membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii), respectively, but that he did meet the criteria 
for published material and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vi). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the membership criterion. 1 Upon reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion on account of his membership in the Brazilian 
Writer's Association (UBE). The Director held that the Petitioner had not established that his 
membership in the UBE met the requirements of this criterion, noting that the articles of incorporation 
for the UBE do not require outstanding achievements for membership in the association. The Director 
1 The Petitioner has not raised the issue of the awards criterion on appeal. In addition, the Director noted that the Petitioner 
submitted documentation of his book sales as comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) to the commercial success 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The Director stated that this evidence would not be considered because the Petitioner 
had not established why the standards of commercial success do not readily apply to his occupation. The Petitioner has 
not raised this issue on appeal. 
2 
Matter of W-S-
also held that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence to establish that UBE's membership 
applications were judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides the directory of the board of directors for the UBE with a description 
of each member's background and career history. The Petitioner highlights the section of the UBE 
articles of incorporation which state that the directors will approve the membership applications. We 
note that the documentation about the directory of the board of directors is a computerized translation 
and lacks the required certification of accuracy. Any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation in which the translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). Here, the Petitioner has not submitted such 
a certification for us to validate the accuracy of the translation. 
We note that these articles of incorporation are for the I I Chapter of the UBE, but neither 
the Petitioner's UBE identification card nor any other evidence in the record indicates that he is a 
member of that chapter. Nor does the record demonstrate that these articles of incorporation apply to 
the entire UBE organization. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). Furthermore, the record does not demonstrate that the members of the board of directors, 
identified as part of the I I Chapter, approve membership applications for entire 
organization, or that those who judged the Petitioner's achievements are recognized as national or 
international experts in their field. 
Even if the Petitioner resolves the concerns noted above, he must establish that the UBE requires 
outstanding achievements as a prerequisite for membership. The articles of incorporation state six 
criteria that may qualify an individual for membership. Specifically, they allow for evidence that the 
applicant is an author of certain items under paid copyright, including being an author ofliterary books, 
of at least 20 articles in magazines or newspapers, or of a theatrical work or similar artistic work 
performed on stage. Other criteria allows for membership where, within the past five years, the 
individual has published scientific or technical work in a book or has authored a screenplay for a movie 
that has been filmed. A final criterion allows for evidence showing that the applicant is an author of 
any unpublished work that "has been awarded or achieved an honorable mention in any reputed literary 
contest." If none of the above apply, the articles also indicate that someone can join through attestation 
by other members that that the individual is a writer. Here, although the Petitioner claims that being 
an author under paid copyright demonstrates outstanding achievement, he has not submitted evidence 
to support his position. Accordingly, the record does not reflect that the UBE requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he has membership in 
an association that requires outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field in order to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
2 We note that the Director also addressed the Petitioner's membership in the International Press Association (IP A), 
concluding that the evidence submitted from the IP A did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner has 
not raised this issue on appeal and therefore, we will not consider it. 
3 
Matter of W-S-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director noted that the record contains articles about the Petitioner that were published in Mix 
Cultural, Toda Dia, and Tribuna Liberal, concluding that this latter publication is a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media. Accordingly, the Director held that the Petitioner met 
this criterion. 
Here, we disagree with the Director and find that the published material in Tribuna Liberal is not about 
the Petitioner. 3 One article from that publication, entitled 
~-------------~ 'references the Petitioner as the director, screenplay, and editor, 
but focuses on the film and the individual who inspired it. The record also contains a Tribuna Liberal 
article entitled, ~----------------------------~ This 
article quotes the Petitioner as he discusses the project, but the theme of the article is about the film. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). Thus, while these articles mention the Petitioner, they do 
not constitute published material about him. 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserts that the record contains articles about him in Correia Popular. One 
discusses the 
but the Petitioner has not shown how this constitutes an article about 
...,.h-im-se_l_f_A_n_o-th_e_r_a_rt_i_cl_e-pu~blished in Correia Popular, entitled I I focuses on the 
Petitioner's second novel, but only mentions him once in its final paragraph. As such, the Petitioner 
has not established that these articles are about him, as required by the regulation. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the articles published in Mix Cultural and Toda Dia are 
about the Petitioner. We farther find that the record contains articles published in Cultura and Falha 
Da Regiao On-line that are about the Petitioner. For all four of these publications, however, the 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence identifying the intended audience or showing that their 
circulation is high compared to other publications to demonstrate that they are professional or major 
trade publications or major media. 4 
Finally, other evidence of published material in the record is insufficient to establish eligibility. The 
Petitioner submitted photographs appearing to depict him being interviewed on EM CENA, a 
television show, but the record does not contain a transcription of this interview or other evidence of 
the context of this photograph. In addition, the record contains several articles, such as one about his 
fictional works published in Lwniare and another entitled I I that do 
3 One article published in Tribuna Liberal, entitled ~------------'' does not state the name of the 
author, as required by the regulation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
4 
Matter of W-S-
not contain the date or name of the author, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, 
for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion. We disagree. A scholarly article in the 
academic arena "reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse" and 
"should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography."5 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field, which means individuals "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship."6 
Here, the record contains an article written by the Petitioner entitled, I t' that was published in 2006, and another article co-authored b._y_t_h_e_P_e-t1-.t-io_n_e_r_t_h-at_w_a__,s 
published in 2008 entitled, I I' both of which w._e_r_e_p_u_b_h __ s-h-ed-in-th_e_m_a_g_a_z-in_e_U_F_O ___ T_h_e_s_e _a-re-jo-um--al-i-st-ic-art-ic-le-s-th-a~t 
contain interviews from individuals describing certain events. The Petitioner has not established that 
these constitute scholarly articles in the academic arena or in any other fields. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of W-S-, ID# 2756032 (AAO June 5, 2019) 
5 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
6 Id. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 5, 2023 In Re: 26377374 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated he is a highly qualified restaurateur with over 25 years ofexperience and has a "keen 
flair for innovation thinking in the development of South Indian vegetarian food as a global trend." The 
Petitioner further stated he opened three successful outlets of a traditional South Indian vegetarian chain 
in the United States. He will continue to work in the United States as a general manager in the restaurant 
industry. Because the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (v), alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of 
major significance in the field 
• (vii), display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the criterion pertaining to performing in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not pursue his initial claims that he meets the criteria relating to receipt of lesser nationally or 
international recognized prizes or awards, published material, original contributions, and display of 
work, nor does he contest the Director's conclusions regarding these issues. We therefore consider 
those issues abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att :v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's performance in a leading 
or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. But for the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed membership in two organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's material, 
the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he did not 
establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of membership and 
the associations were not in the field for which classification is sought, in this case as a general 
manager. Within the appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the memberships he has attained qualify 
under this criterion. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both ofthe following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
First, we consider the South Indian Chef Association (SICA). On appeal, the Petitioner submits a 
print-out from the SICA website stating it is a fraternity of culinary professionals representing the 
finest hotels, restaurants, and culinary institutions in South India. The Petitioner also states SICA 
candidates must hold a position of Chef de Partie/Sr. Chef de Partie, Kitchen Executive/Junior Sous 
Che±: Chef, Executive Chef or Corporate Chef, or a position of equal designation. The Petitioner 
submits a copy of his official SICA identification card and certificate. While we acknowledge the 
Petitioner is a member of SICA, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate this 
association is in the field classification is sought since he will be a general manager. In fact, the 
Petitioner listed the positions members must hold to become eligible for this association and he did 
not list the position of general manager. In addition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence 
regarding the eligibility requirements for becoming a member of SICA and it is therefore not clear 
how members are eligible to join. The submitted documentation does not show that SICA utilized 
national or international recognized experts to judge the achievement of prospective members to 
determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that SCIA used this 
outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. Each of these are mandatory 
requirements within the regulation. 
The Petitioner further provides a copy of his membership card and certificate of membership for the 
American Culinary Federation, Inc. (ACF). According to the print-out from the ACF website, the 
association is a "professional organization for chefs and cooks," and it has more than 14,000 members 
throughout the United States. While we acknowledge the Petitioner is a member ofACF, the Petitioner 
3 
did not provide sufficient evidence this association is in the field of management. The Petitioner also 
submits a letter from the President of thel IChapter of ACF, who stated a Chef must be 
invited by a Fellow of the ACF to complete the application process and we only choose Chefs at the 
"top of their game." Although the letter confirms members are at the "top of the game," this 
information is not sufficient to demonstrate the requirements for becoming a member of ACF and it 
is therefore not clear how members are eligible to join. In other words, the record does not establish 
how the ACF ascertains whether prospective members are at "the top of their game." The submitted 
documentation does not show that ACF utilized national or international recognized experts to judge 
the achievement of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also 
lacking was an indication that ACF used this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for membership. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not 
supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 2 
On appeal the Petitioner does not explain how any of the organizations require outstanding 
achievements as one ofthe minimum requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work of 
others in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states he served as a judge for one episode of a cooking show where he determined the 
"Most Innovative South Indian Cuisine." On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from Insideus 
Media confirming that od I2014, the Petitioner was a judge for one episode of a cooking 
show where six chefs were given 45 minutes to present their cooking to the Petitioner. The Petitioner 
scored the contestants on presentation, taste, innovation, and judged the winner of the contest. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show he judged the work of others in the same of 
allied field of specification for which classification is sought. In this case, the Petitioner judged the 
work ofchefs; however, the Petitioner's work for which classification is sought is to work as a general 
manager in the restaurant industry. On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide evidence to overcome 
the Director's concerns or demonstrate he judged the work of individuals in the field of restaurant 
management. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 17 5 6, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
2 Matter ofHo, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
4 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); 
see also Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); Skokos v. US. Dept. ofHomeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 
712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The burden 
is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not 
limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different 
countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would 
be considered high in the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an offer letter it executed with.____ --r-____ ___,on July 10, 
201 7. The offer letter offered the Petitioner a general manager position with an annual base salary of 
$180,000. The Petitioner also submits a copy of the Occupational Outlook Handbook's entry for the 
"Food Service Managers" occupational category, which indicated a 2021 median pay of $55,440 per 
year. The Petitioner contends a salary of $180,000 is much higher than the median pay for a food 
service manager. However, an offer letter alone is not sufficient evidence to establish the Petitioner 
received the claimed salary. The Petitioner also submits Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, 2021, 
that indicated the Petitioner's compensation as $13,880.00. The Petitioner does not explain the 
discrepancy in the claimed salary and the salary he was actually paid according to the tax statement. 
On appeal the Petitioner submits copies ofhis pay statements for 2022; however, this is over two years 
after the current petition was filed. USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish 
eligibility for the benefit it is seeking at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A 
visa petition may not be approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after the Petitioner or 
Beneficiary becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See Matter ofMichelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N 
Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). A petitioner may not make material changes to a petition in an 
effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS requirements. See Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
5 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 5, 2024 In Re: 31301362 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a data scientist who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she warranted approval in a final merits determination. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning a Master of Science in Computer Science, the Petitioner briefly worked as a data scientist 
before founding an information technology company in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met three of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied three of the criteria relating to published 
material, judging, and authorship of scholarly articles, but that she had not demonstrated sustained 
national or international acclaim and that she was among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor in a final merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she satisfied 
such a showing in the final merits determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that she has not met at least three of the regulatory criteria and we withdraw the Director's 
determination to the contrary. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first element is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her 
field in which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. 
We consider these articles to fall within two distinct areas. 
One relative area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, 
endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the 
concepts expressed in the article. The next area lies outside ofthe academic arena in which a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B. l, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
The second evidentiary element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one ofthe 
following: (1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major 
media. Relevant factors a petitioner should demonstrate include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership are 
high relative to similar publications (for major trade publications and other major media). See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.1. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Within the initial filing, the Petitioner claimed she published articles on Bitsight's blog, which was a 
major trade publication. As data to compare with Bitsight's website traffic the Petitioner offered 
samples from other websites she selected, but she did not offer a ranking ofBitsight' s traffic compared 
to other trade publication websites. She also submitted evidence relating to the Towards Data Science 
website. For various reasons, the Director's request for evidence (RFE) notified the Petitioner that her 
initial submission did not meet this criterion's requirements. 
Responding to the RFE, the Petitioner provided additional materials relating to Bitsight and from 
Towards Data Science in the form of additional articles she authored and she incorporated data for 
these webistes she obtained from SiteWorth Traffic. This is a resource that offers "a free service 
designed to estimate value, daily pageviews, daily visitors and daily revenue of a website." 
CALCULATE WEBSITE WORTH, $ITEWORTHTRAFFIC, https://www.siteworthtraffic.com/. 
The Director subsequently granted the criterion without providing any analysis to offer insight into 
their reasoning. We also note that the Petitioner filed a subsequent petition under this same 
immigration classification that the Director denied. Within that decision, the Director concluded the 
Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion based on the very similar claims and evidence that she offered 
with this petition. 
First, the evidence the Petitioner provided consisted of screenshots purporting to be from Site Worth 
Traffic and pasted those images into her RFE response letter rather than submitting actual evidentiary 
printouts from the website. Second, while the Petitioner provided other website traffic in which to 
compare to her submitted evidence, she selected those websites instead of offering a ranking of major 
trade publications in her field which would be a more apt comparison. By the Petitioner selecting the 
websites in which to compare to the sites where she published articles, she may have omitted any sites 
with a higher rate ofviews than the results from the two publications where she published. Ultimately, 
this leaves us unable to properly compare the evidence with other similar sources. Each of these 
shortcomings diminish the evidentiary value of the materials the Petitioner submitted for the record. 
Additionally, the SiteWorth Traffic website does not generate high confidence in the data its website 
produces for our purposes. In their frequently asked questions, they indicate the following: 
Can I consider your estimations to be 100% accurate? 
No, even if we do our best to make sure the estimated information about a website, 
such as the website worth and daily visitors, are accurate, we can not [sic] guarantee 
3 
that these information are 100% accurate. We believe that they are very close to the 
real ones. 
How do you generate the website worth and the other data? 
We use custom algorithms that are updated frequently, we take care of the backlinks 
present in search engines of the Alexa statistics, of the Google Page Rank, and of a lot 
of other factors to generate the estimations about the traffic of a website. 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS, $TTEWORTHTRAFFIC, 
https://www.siteworthtraffic.com/faqs. Especially troubling is that the SiteWorth Traffic website 
reflects it currently relies on Alexa statistics; a service that has been defunct since 2022. How A WS 
Data Exchange can help with the End ofLife ofAlexa Web Information Service, AWS (Nov. 3, 2022), 
https :// aws. amazon. corn/ data-exchange/resources/ end-of-life-of-alexa-web-information-service/. In 
addition to some of Site Worth Traffic's methods no longer existing, this is not a resource that offers 
sufficient detail into how they calculate their estimates; estimates that they cannot even guarantee are 
fully accurate. The Petitioner has not explained why we, or the Director, should allow her to rely on 
outdated and apparently unreliable evidence, as she filed her petition in 2023 after the site was no 
longer in service. In the end, the Petitioner offered inadequate evidence to support her claims that she 
published scholarly articles in her field in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. 
Accordingly, we conclude the Director should not have decided the authorship of scholarly articles 
criterion in the Petitioner's favor and we withdraw their determination as it relates to this requirement. 
Because we are withdrawing the Director's determination under this criterion, the result is that the 
Petitioner has only satisfied two regulatory criteria, when the regulation requires she meet at least 
three. As a result, we do not need to provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 that the Director performed. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
4 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 6, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an attorney specializing in the field of claims management, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of A-N-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as the managing attorney of~-----~------~ D a firm providing guidance on personal injury law and navigating the claims management system 
to United Kingdom nationals in California. As he has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the two following criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contains 
evidence that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others at several claims 
management conferences, including multiple years of the annual It also 
contains evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner, as the founder of the ~--------~ 
served in a leading role for an organization having a 
distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that he has met the criterion for 
judging and for leading or critical role. 
The Petitioner also establishes that he meets the criterion for published material pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record contains published articles in professional publications that are about 
2 
Matter of A-N-
the Petitioner relating to his work in claims mana ement. For exam le the record contains a Claims 
Management Magazine article titled~-----------===---------------~ ~--------'I discussing the Petitioner's formation of~ and including an interview with him 
regarding the future of claims management companies. Information about this magazine in the record 
indicates that it is a publication for professionals in the claims management field. Accordingly the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that he meets the published material criterion. Since he has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has worked as an attorney within the claims management industry 
since 1999, beginning his career as a trainee solicitor and then an assistant solicitor working "on both 
the Claimant and Defendant Insurance side, exclusively handling personal injury matters." The record 
demonstrates that in 2003 the Petitioner founded I I, a firm focused 
on personal injury claims and advising claims management companies, and served as its managing 
attorney. In 2009, while employed with I lthe Petitioner foundedc=]and served as its 
chairman. In 2016, the Petitioner founded! l continuing to serve as a managing attorney of 
this firm. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has frequently authored articles and been interviewed about 
claims management regulation in professional publications within his field. For example, in addition 
to the article referenced above, the Petitioner provided a Modern Claims Magazine article in which he 
addresses the.__ ____________________________ __. In a 
Modern Law Magazine feature, the Petitioner is notably the chair of a roundtable discussion. The 
record also contains several other roundtable discussions, question and answer articles, and opinion 
editorials in various professional publications in which the Petitioner is featured as expert on issues in 
the field. 
The Petitioner also documented that he has received frequent invitations to speak at professional 
events and that the invitations were predicated on his expertise in claims management. For example, 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Matter of A-N-
the invitation to speak at the .__ ____________ __. keynote session states "[a]s a 
prominent commentator on the future of the personal injury claims sector, we feel that the delegates 
would really value your perspective on ... the challenges and opportunities that smaller [ claims 
management companies] face .... " Furthermore, in July 2011, the Petitioner was invited to participate 
in a meeting of the United Kingdom Ministry ofJustice's I I 
'--------........-;,===-=f.=.o.:..cu=s:..:e:..::,d on a review of existing claims management regulation. A letter 
in the record from I I managing partner of I I explains that I I 
primary purpose is to advise the Ministry of Justice "on all matters relating to the Claims Management 
Sector." ~ and the Petitioner as its representative, was subsequently invited to join the~ 
permanently, and the record includes evidence demonstrating that the Ministry of Justice has sought 
the Petitioner's input on claims management regulation issues. This evidence is consistent with a 
finding that the Petitioner has achieved a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 
101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding the Petitioner's sustained acclaim in the United Kingdom, the record reflects that, in 
addition to being frequently featured in professional publications and as a speaker at conferences, the 
Petitioner has served on multiple judging panels for claims industry conferences and awards since 
2010. Notably, in 2012 he served as the chair of the judging panel for the '------,;=========1 
He also judged, among others, the 2013 I I ~nd the 2015 I I I I an industry event "designed to celebrate the successes and talents of those in 
the claims industry." The record further shows that under the Petitioner's leadership, I lhas 
received industry awards, including the award at the 2012 I I I I and the ~------__.award at the 2015 ~----------' The 
Petitioner has established that his work in claims management, and the recognition it has brought him 
in addition to his years serving asl l representative on thee=] places him as one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability in business. The totality of the 
evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that he is 
one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has documented sustained 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, 
the Petitioner has shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
4 
Matter of A-N-
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of A-N-ID# 2794643 (AAO June 6, 2019) 
5 MATTER OF R-J-S- DATE: JUNE 6, 2019 
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, the president of a manufacturing company, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had not met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must 
meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Matter of R-J-S-
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 {D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 {AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder of a manufacturing company that supplies components to companies in 
the aerospace industry and other high technology fields. As he has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the record must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner 
had not met any of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the following 
criteria: original contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (viii), and (ix), respectively. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude 
that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. The 
contributions must have already been realized, rather than being prospective possibilities. They must 
be original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related in nature. Finally, the 
contributions must rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project 
or to an organization. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner bases his claim to eligibility under this criterion on the successes of the company he 
founded, its technolo ical achievements, and u on his own business acumen. In 2007, he founded 
~--------------------~a manufacturing company inl I 
India, focused on producing components, sub-systems, and assemblies in the aerospace and other high 
technology industries. Through his leadership. I lwas able to enter into business relationships 
with major entities in the ae,
1aspace /ndustry, such as I II l and the 
Indian I I In 2011, also entered into a joint venture withl ltor the 
machining of aircraft parts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his company demonstrated remarkably high business growth in 
a short period of time in that he "conceived and designed a revolutionary advanced manufacturing 
2 
Matter of R-J-S-
facility," and in two years of being in business he had built "an unprecedented" order backlog with I I to be performed over 10 years. The Petitioner states that I I had also entered 
into a substantial agreement with I I by the end of 2009 which preceded the joint venture 
between with.__ _____ ____,He also notes the business agreements with the companies discussed 
above, and attests to his company's job creation results and business volume growth in India. 
While the growth ofl I shows the Petitioner's business-related successes, the record does not 
establish that these achievements represent original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating what impact the company's successes 
have had on the field. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036; aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1122 (holding 
that the petitioner had not established how his contributions had influenced the field to equate to 
contributions of major significance). 
On appeal, the Petitioner also identifies several technological advancements I lhas achieved that 
he asserts demonstrate original contributions of major significance. He contends that a team from I I and a global equipment supplier developed a new technology for machining and manufacturing 
diffuser cases, which reduced the global benchmark manufacturing time from 40 hours to under 20, 
while resulting in improved quality and efficiency. The Petitioner also claims that he developed an 
innovative new technology for turbine blade repair that was successfully flight tested. He also asserts 
thatl !achieved high scores on several certifications, such as AS9100 andD 97.1 
The record does not corroborate the Petitioner's claims regarding his company's technological 
successes. As evidence ofi ts work on diffuser cases, he submitted a letter froml I I I from '--------~-----' thanking him for the support and work bot~ 
organizations performed "on equipment & feature selection and technology development onl__J 
Diffusor Case, culminating in successful project .... " The record contains no evidence supporting the 
Petitioner's claims of improved quality, efficiency, or reduced manufacturing time. Additionally, in 
his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner states that "[ s ]ubsequently I I used similar 
technology in Poland for their internal manufacturing." However, he submitted no evidence to 
substantiate this claim. 
As evidence of the compan 's work on turbine blade repair, the Petitioner relies on two letters from 
of the Indian I l In a letter from 2013, '---------------~ ~--------~ 
expresses his appreciation of.__ _ ___, work reclaiming turbine blade and noting that the technology, 
which was developed by the Petitioner's "elite firm," will "go a long way in reclamation technology 
and substantial savings to National Exchequer." The second letter, from 2014, does not specifically 
reference I f s turbine work, but notes the work that the company has done in design, 
development, manufacturing, and reclamation of aerospace parts, and indicates that there is potential 
for more growth in long term support of base repair depots. The impacts described in these letters are 
prospective and potential, while the criterion requires the Petitioner to establish, at the time of filing, 
that his original contributions have had a significant impact. Furthermore, the impacts described in 
1 AS9000 is a quality 1anage1ent standard for the aviation, space, and defense industries, organized by the Society of 
Automotive Engineers. is a certification standard promulgated byl I 
3 
Matter of R-J-S-
the letters are limited to I I the Indianl I and the National Exchequer; the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating what impact is has on the field in general. 
Similarly, the record lacks evidence demonstrating the significance ofl I certification scores, 
such as how they demonstrate an original contribution or whr significance they were to the field. 
While the described technological achievements indicate that is a successful and reputable 
business, they do not establish that the Petitioner has met the regulatory criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that his business acumen demonstrates an original contribution of major 
significance to the field. He contends that his background in business development, sales, and 
management have allowed him to achieve uncommon goals, establish his core business in a very 
uncommon way, and implement strategic plans and optimized business opportunities. Additionally, 
he asserts that he designed and implemented a "cyber-physical advanced manufacturing system," 
which required "a new class of manufacturing engineers, who were comfortable both in the digital and 
the physical world[,]" and that as a result, he "developed the entire training program which spanned 
technology, operations, quality and soft skills." 
In support of his business acumen claims, the Petitioner has submitted a number of letters. 
Correspondence from resident of Products and Technolo at and 
~------ the president of ~---------------~ both note that 
manufacturing capacity limits progress in product development, as it has not kept up with design 
systems. Both letters go on to state that the Petitioner understands this, and that this understanding 
"coupled with his experience running an international manufacturing entity has enabled him as a 
person of extraordinary ability in the business of advance manufacturing." ( emphasis in originals) In 
addition, the record contains a letter froml . . .I chief executive officer at I I 
stating that he believes the Petitioner to be an individual who demonstrates an extraordinary ability in 
the field of business. Similarly, a letter from I Ian aerospace and defense expert atl I 
I , I states that he has found the Petitioner to be "a person with extraordinary abilities in advance 
manufacturing for critical sectors." 
While complimentary, the letters fail to establish that the Petitioner's business acumen can be 
considered an original contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value; letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with 
Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/ 
Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. Here, the letters lack specifics about what original 
contributions the Petitioner has made and how they have impacted the field. Rather, they claim, 
without explanation, that the Petitioner is an individual of extraordinary ability. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. Fed in Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), af'ed, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
4 
Matter of R-J-S-
The record does not include support for the Petitioner's claim that he designed and implemented a 
cyber-physical advanced manufacturing plant that required the creation of a new class of engineer for 
which he developed a comprehensive new training program. In his 2014 letter,.__ _______ __. 
states that visitors to I l"witness[ ed] one of the finest industrial infrastructures in the country" 
and goes on to indicate that "there is a great potential, skill and expertise available at your firm for 
design, development and precision parts machining, manufacturing of re-engineered parts and 
reclamation of technology of critical spares." The record also contains several photographs of a 
building, various machines, and machined parts. However, the record does not demonstrate that the 
facility was designed by the Petitioner, that he developed a training program for engineers, or that this 
facility needed "a new class of manufacturing engineers, who were comfortable both in the digital and 
the physical world." Furthermore, assuming arguendo that the Petitioner did those things, the record 
does not establish that these contributions were of major significance to the field. 
After reviewing Te evidence in the record, we recognize the business success the Petitioner's 
company, has experienced, but he has not established that this success equates to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 130 (indicating that 
success alone is insufficient to establish eligibility for this classification); see also id. at 134 (upholding 
a finding that "contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through 
the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the 
organization or the establishment's activities. 
The Director held that the Petitioner had shown that he had performed in a leading or critical role for I lbut that the record did not establish that his company has a distinguished reputation through 
evidence of the company's reputation in the community or awards or rankings. As the record contains 
sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's role within I las its founder, we agree with the Director 
that he has performed in a leading or critical role. At issue here is whether he has performed in such 
a role in an organization that has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence in the record establishes that I I has a 
distinguished reputation in its own way. He states that the defense industry in India requires it to keep 
a low profile because of the sensitive nature of its work. The record contains documentation 
supporting this point from the Indian .__ __ ~ ___ ____.demonstrating that I I is prohibited 
from disclosing its role in providing the products it develops. The record reflects that the IndianD I I invited the Petitioner to make a presentation at thel I 
Conference. The Petitioner also submits evidence that members of the Indian military visited I I 
facilities as part of their principal maintenance officers committee meeting. While the evidence in the 
record does not establish widespread recognition of the Petitioner's company, we find that its 
5 
Matter of R-J-S-
partnerships with such well-established companies such as I Ian~ l together with 
its reputation within the Indian I I demonstrate that it has a distinguished reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he earned high income as the owner of I l and that the 
Director failed to consider evidence of compensation from that company's joint venture withc=J 
The Director discussed the evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's income for 2008, 2010, and 
2011, concluding that the record did not establish that he met this criterion. The record reflects that 
the Petitioner's income for 2010 and 2011, as stated on his Indian tax forms, was 7,209,600 and 
1,645,464, respectively, in Indian rupees. In addition, the Petitioner also submitted evidence 
demonstrating that in 2011, he commanded an additional salary of $220,000 for his work as the 
managing director of I I the joint venture between I I and 
I I 
Upon review of the record in its totality, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a 
high salary. In his explanatory note on salary and remuneration, he claims a salary from I I 
equivalent to $231,000, based on 2008 exchange rates. As evidence, he submits an account statement 
from Citibank for a jointly held account shared with his wife, showing all transactions in 2008. Using 
handwritten notations, he has marked certain deposits as being received froml I However, 
Citibank identifies I las the source of only some of the deposits claimed by the Petitioner, but 
does not indicate the origin of the others. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that those 
deposits represent income from I I as he claims. Additionally, he has not submitted evidence to 
demonstrate that any income he did receive froml I in 2008 was high in relation to others in the 
field. 
The Petitioner has submitted Indian tax documents, which show he received 7,209,600 rupees in 2010. 
He claims that amount was equivalent to $180,000, and that it exceeded the income of 92 percent of 
households in India. To establish eligibility under this criterion, the relevant inquiry is how the 
Petitioner's income compares to others in the field, not with the general populace. Thus, he must 
establish his salary was high in comparison to those performing similar work in the field. USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. The record contains a document from Monster 
Salary Index from 201 7 which compares salaries of "managers, chief executives, senior officials and 
legislators" in India, but he has not shown that this evidence is relevant to time period for which he 
documented his income. On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted similar information regarding 
salaries in 2010, or evidence of his salary in 2017, despite being alerted by the Director of these 
evidentiary shortcomings. As such, he has not established that his income during that time period was 
high in relation to others in the field. 
Finally, the record contains documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational 
Outlook Handbook, dated May 2016, related to compensation of chief executives. This evidence 
indicates that the top ten percent for those in this occupation earn $208,000 per year, which the 
6 
Matter of R-J-S-
Petitioner contends demonstrates he has commanded a high salary. However, when a petitioner works 
outside of the United States, salary comparisons should be evaluated on wage statistics or other 
comparable data in that country, rather than by converting the salary to U.S. dollars and viewing 
whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. Id. Thus, the Petitioner's use of 
the Occupational Outlook Handbook in relation to his salary froml I to establish eligibility for 
this criterion is inapposite. 2 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-J-S-, ID# 1746454 (AAO June 6, 2019) 
2 The Petitioner has previously claimed that he would receive compensation over $250,000 per annum in the United States 
once he received his work authorization, which the Director discounted, noting that eligibility could not be established 
based on future events. On appeal, the Petitioner has not raised this issue, and we will not consider it. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 06, 2024 In Re: 30776291 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a design and marketing executive specializing in the area of aircraft livery, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification . Specifically , 
he determined that the Petitioner did not meet at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed as the Chief Creative Officer and Partner for F-G-USA Inc., a company 
providing digital media marketing services, advertising campaigns, and livery design services. The 
record shows that he has several years of experience in the fields of marketing, branding, and design, 
and intends to continue in these roles with his current employer in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers in his field 
and the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published materials about him and his work in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, and his membership in associations 
requiring outstanding achievements of their members. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that it does not establish that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, and thus 
does not meet the initial evidence requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 1 As the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision that he does not meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) relating to his performance in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, we consider that claim to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing 
Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To meet the standards of this criterion, an individual must submit evidence that 1) they are a member 
of an association; 2) the association is in their field of extraordinary ability; 3) the association requires 
outstanding achievements as a condition for membership; and 4) that the outstanding achievements 
are judged by national or international experts in their fields. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in the Association of Registered Graphic 
Designers (RGD) as a registered member, which allows him to use the "RGD" designation. He 
therefore satisfied the first two elements of this criterion. He also submitted the section of the RGD 
bylaws relating to membership which states that in addition to educational, experiential, and fee 
requirements, registered members must successfully complete a qualification examination, which 
includes an online test and portfolio interview. The Petitioner further included the results of his on line 
test and portfolio interview in the record, which included a note stating that due to his more than 15 
years of experience he was not required to complete three of the five sections of the test relating to 
design research, design principles, and business. Finally, he submitted articles and profiles about other 
RGD members. 
The Director concluded that this evidence was insufficient to show that RGD requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that in denying his claim to this 
criterion, the Director did not take the evidence regarding the qualification examination and profile 
interview into consideration, and placed too much emphasis on the payment of annual dues as a 
disqualifying factor. He also asserts that the qualification examination is a stringent one, and that 
RGD is regarded as a prestigious association in the field. However, we note that pages from the 
association's website state that the RGD designation (and thus membership at the Petitioner's level) 
is a "signal[ s] of quality and competence to the profession, public and government," indicating that it 
reflects the attainment of a standard of professionalism rather than an outstanding professional 
achievement. 
This is also shown by the Petitioner's exemption from three of the five sections of the online test due 
to his experience in the field. In general, requirements based upon a minimum level of education or 
years of experience do not show that membership is based upon outstanding achievements. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. While the website also 
describes the designation requirements as "rigorous," the allowance for the substitution of experience 
for sections of the test shows that the emphasis is upon acquired knowledge and skill in the field rather 
than professional achievements that elevate a member above their peers. 
In addition, the criteria used by RGD in evaluating the Petitioner's portfolio presentation do not 
consider any specific achievements that would make a potential member stand out from other graphic 
design professionals. Rather, they focus on questions such as whether the presentation demonstrated 
the Petitioner's knowledge of his clients and their needs and whether he displayed originality and 
proficiency in developing designs that successfully met those needs. And the reviewer comments also 
3 
focus on the Petitioner's communication, business, and design skills rather than any achievements 
which set him apart from his colleagues. 
Finally, although the record includes the professional profiles of several RGD members who include 
that designation in their profile, this evidence does not show that attaining the designation is an 
outstanding achievement in and of itself. Rather, the use of that designation in these profiles, 
frequently used for job searches, demonstrates a wish to convey a certain level of skill and 
professionalism that could be desirable to a potential employer. 
For all of the reasons above, the Petitioner has not established that his membership in RGD required 
him to demonstrate outstanding achievements in his field. So we conclude that he does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
This criterion requires evidence showing published material about the individual and their work in the 
field of extraordinary ability. In addition, that material must include basic information such as its title, 
date and author, and must have been published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted several articles which were about him and which focused on his designs 
of aircraft livery. This includes two articles on the website businessinsider.com, as well as articles on 
cnet.com, wearefinn.com, aviationweek.com, and other websites relating to the aviation industry. At 
least one article was published in print: theI 12023 edition ofMetropolitan Airport News included 
an interview of the Petitioner about his work as an aircraft livery designer. The record also includes 
media kits and "About" pages regarding these websites, as well as reports from similarweb.com 
showing statistics including total visits over a three-month period and global, country and industry 
rankings. While the Director acknowledged that these articles were about the Petitioner and his work, 
he concluded that these materials did not establish that any of the websites or journals qualified as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the reports from similarweb.com are reliable sources of the 
readership or circulation of the websites. In support of this, he points to printouts featuring a variety 
of well-known companies and media outlets which "either refer[s] to SimilarWeb to indicate the 
reliability of the publication it cites, or advertises its own website on the sites in which articles about 
[the Petitioner] are featured." He also asserts that because these companies chose to advertise on these 
websites, an inference can be made that the websites have "national and global reach." 
This latter assertion made by the Petitioner is not supported by the evidence but based only upon 
conjecture. In determining whether a particular medium or publication qualified under this criterion, 
we consider such relevant factors as the intended audience and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1). The Petitioner has not established that 
4 
which advertisements appear on a particular webpage for a particular user at a particular time is a 
similarly relevant factor in making that determination. 
As for the figures provided by the websites and in the similarweb.com reports, relative circulation, 
viewership, or readership figures are relevant when considering major trade publications or other 
major media. The record demonstrates that the information from similarweb.com is relied upon in 
media and other industries to evaluate website traffic and other performance indicators, but the figures 
provided are insufficient to show that any of the websites in which the articles about the Petitioner 
appeared are one of those qualifying types of media. For example, the information from the 
businessinsider.com website states that its platform has 200 million "global monthly uniques," but 
does not clarify whether this figure reflects traffic on just the website or includes other websites and 
social media platforms, and does not put this figure into perspective. In responding to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner added a report from similarweb.com about this website, 
stating that it experienced almost 186 million visits over a three-month period and had monthly unique 
visitors of 38.5 million. It also provides global and country rank figures, and an industry rank amongst 
"search engines." But this information does not include sufficient context to establish that 
businessinsider.com is either a major trade medium or other major medium, as the total size of the 
groups in which the website is ranked is not identified. And the industry ranking amongst "search 
engines" does not identify a particular trade or profession which is the intended audience of this 
medium. 
Other reports from similarweb.com appear to include customized searches by the Petitioner, but the 
relevance of this information has not been demonstrated. For example, the Petitioner asserts in his 
RFE response that the website aviationweek.com, which published an article about him and his work, 
is ranked seventh for "aviation-related websites." But the report showing this website in the seventh 
position is labeled "audience interests" without explanation of this term, the list is comprised mainly 
ofwebsites serving the "travel and tourism" industry, and the ranking is based upon "cross-visitation," 
another term that is not explained. And while the same visits and ranking information discussed above 
is also provided for this website, they suffer from the same lack of context, and are significantly lower 
than those for businessinsider.com. 
The evidence regarding the remaining websites which published articles about the Petitioner and his 
work have the same issues as those described above. While we disagree with the Director's conclusion 
that statistics such as those from similarweb.com are not useful in determining whether a website may 
qualify as professional or major trade publication or other major media, in this case the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated the significance or relevance of the figures provided to establish the major status of 
these websites. As such, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the articles about his him 
and his work were published in professional, major trade or other major media, and he does not meet 
the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
5 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16151379 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 07, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher focusing on environmental and chemical/petroleum engineering, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We initially summarily dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, but subsequently 
reopened it on service motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in environmental engineering fromc=]university in 2017, and at the 
time of filing was employed in the oil and gas industry as a research engineer focusing on flow 
assurance and water treatment. He indicates that he intends to continue pursuing research in these 
areas in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and service as a judge 
of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary 
criterion relating to original contributions of major significance to the field, and that the Director 
mischaracterized or ignored much of the evidence submitted in support of that criterion. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusions regarding the two 
criteria he found the Petitioner to have met, as there is ample evidence in the record of the Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles and service as a peer reviewer for scientific journals. 
Regarding the third criteria claimed by the Petitioner, the Director's decision drew unsupported 
conclusions from the evidence of the Petitioner's contributions to his field and applied them 
inappropriately in the analysis. However, upon de nova review of the evidence, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets that criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
2 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he or she made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. Visinscaia 
at 134. 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner's contributions to his field fall into three main areas of 
research in the field of environmental and chemical/petroleum engineering. The first area concerns 
his development of an irrigation water management model while a student atl I University. I lofl I University submitted a reference letter on the Petitioner's 
behalf: indicating that he served as his undergraduate research advisor.1 He describes the Petitioner's 
work in detail, and states that the Petitioner applied the model he developed to an arid region in China 
and reported his results in a paper published in Agricultural Water Management in 2013. I I 
Onotes that one of the papers which cite to this article tested the effectiveness of another irrigation 
model against the Petitioner's, showing that it served as a benchmark for future developments. 
Another reference letter which describes this research was submitted byl I of .... l ___ __. 
University of Science and Technology. Although he does not indicate how he became familiar with 
the Petitioner's work, he refers to another group of researchers who also compared the Petitioner's 
irrigation model to their own, and indicates that the Petitioner's published research had been cited on 
246 occasions at the time his letter was written. However, neither he no~ I describe how 
the performance of the Petitioner's model compared to that of other researchers, or the extent to which 
it influenced the development of these subsequent models. In additionJ ldoes not explain the 
relevance of the number of citations to the entirety of the Petitioner's published work as a measure of 
the contribution made by this specific research. 
The Petitioner also submitted several articles which cite to his paper in Agricultural Water 
Management. Some of these articles consider this paper as one of several employing various methods 
to model the management of irrigation. For example, an article in published in Journal of Hydrology 
in 2019 lists the Petitioner's as one of several "mathematical programming approaches" applied to 
water resource management, and does not single it out as particularly impactful. Similarly, a 2017 
paper in Agricultural Water Management cites the Petitioner's paper as an example of the use of 
,__ ______ __. programming, before going on to apply a different model. Another paper 
published in the same journal and year lists the Petitioner's as one of four "catchment water allocation 
tools." And a paper published in Energy Procedia in 2019 cites the Petitioner's paper and another in 
explaining the terms of a mathematical formula. This evidence shows that the Petitioner's approach 
and methods have served as a basis for comparison for other researchers, but does not establish that it 
stood out from similar research in terms of its significance to the field or was ultimately adopted and 
implemented on a widespread basis. 
A second focus of the Petitioner's research involved his contributions to a software product developed 
by th Universit and used b consortium members in the 
oil and gas industry. The Director of th .__ _ _. ~--------- wrote to confirm that the 
1 We have thoroughly reviewed all of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, including those not specifically 
mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Petitioner's work "improved upon the conventionail I model," and was incorporated 
into the I I software as "a set of compatible viral coefficients" which allowed it to 
be applicable to a wider range o~ I conditions. I I goes on to 
state thatL~"is employed by over 40 major oil and gas exploration and production companies ... " to 
"control and manage scale issues and save millions and millions of dollars every year." While this 
letter indicates that the Petitioner's work has been implemented in the oil and gas industry, I I I I does not state whether its inclusion in~ directly led to increased usage of this software, 
which had been previously developed by thec=J and was already in use by consortium members in 
the industry. 
The Petitioner's work in this as ect of his career also led to ublications in scientific journals and 
presentations at conferences,__ ___ ---.-----~----~----.--~iversity in the United Kingdom 
discusses the Petitioner's research in theL-_ _,-------"l--__Jcrystallization, and explains the 
limitations of previous models based upon~----~ He states that he "referenced [the 
Petitioner's] assertion of the importance of selecting the most accurate equilibrium constants" in his 
own work, and notes that his research "helped us complete our study and advanced the theoretical 
understanding ofl l of the whole industry." Although this letter confirms that this work 
contributed to the field of environmental and chemical engineering, and particularly to the D 
I I niche within that field, it does not show that it stood out from advances made by others in 
the field as being of major significance. 
Another researcher who cited to the Petitioner's research regardin~ I is 
.__ ________ ........,who writes that he works as a I lengineer in the oil and gas 
industry. He indicates that the Petitioner "substantially improved thel I model," and that 
he and his colleagues used the Petitioner's methods and expanded upon them "to look at ways of 
developing a more reliable tool for P.redictin~ , I" Although he goes on to 
state that the Petitioner's "im rove odel has become the new industry-wide standard, where 
it is known as the~-----~ this statement contradicts! I's letter which 
indicates that the Petitioner's work was incorporated into D which was already widely used in the 
industry. Further, while both of these letters confirm that other researchers have built upon the 
Petitioner's work, and provide details about how it has impacted their own research to some extent, 
they do not indicate that it has remarkably impacted the environmental and chemical engineering field. 
The record also includes other evidence of citation to the Petitioner's work in .... l _____ _.l This 
includes partial copies of several articles which cite to the Petitioner's work. One such paper was 
presented at the 20190ntemational Conference! I Chemistry, and cites three papers co­
authored by the Petitioner. The authors use the Petitioner and his colleagues at 9university as 
examples of "several researchers" generating '----=---.---~andl conditions to 
develop improved! I models, but they critique this work by noting that the full details of 
experimental methods are not disclosed. In addition, despite the Petitioner's papers comprising three 
of the six articles cited in this paper, the partial copy of this paper submitted does not demonstrate that 
the authors relied upon his work to support their own or reach conclusions. 
Another example of an article in the record which cites the Petitioner's published research in this niche 
was published in the Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering in 2019. Here the authors indicate 
that the Petitioner and his colleagues are among "many researchers [who] identify! las 
4 
being one of the main driving forces fo~~-------~t' and use data from one of their papers 
to perform a simulation. 
These and the other papers submitted show that other researchers have referred to and built upon the 
Petitioner's published research i~ I prediction and prevention. While they offer deeper 
insight into the impact of the Petitioner's work beyond simple citation figures and statistics, these 
examples do not show that his work was unusually or remarkably influential on other researchers or 
otherwise rose to the level of major significance. 
Regarding citation figures and statistics, on appeal the Petitioner asserts that the Director was not 
justified in considering figures from his Google Scholar profile as diminished in probability, and did 
not give consideration to statistics from Microsoft Academic and Clarivate Analytics. Although the 
Petitioner acknowledges that the article published in Scientometrics in 2014, which he submitted in 
response to the Director's RFE, states that citation figures from Google Scholar should not be used for 
bibliometric analysis due to "numerous deficiencies for research evaluation," he nevertheless defends 
his reliance on the analysis from Microsoft Academic which is based upon those figures. That report 
indicates that the Petitioner's "citation percentile" and "publication percentile" are both above 99%, 
but does not explain the methodology used to arrive at these figures or their meaning. We also note 
that the portion of the report labelled "areas of research" includes systems engineering and "natural 
resource economics," subjects which are not clearly related to the Petitioner's specific research, but 
does not include chemical engineering, petroleum engineering o~ I In addition, the 
Petitioner does not explain how this report, which considers citations to all of his work, is relevant to 
the consideration of specific research contributions he has made in niches such as irrigation water 
management and k prediction and prevention. For all of these reasons, we do not find 
the report from Microsoft Academic to be relevant to the issue of whether the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance to his field, whether in this aspect of his work or in the 
others considered in this decision. 
Turning to the evidence from Clarivate Analytics, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing 
percentile rankings for citations to papers published in several research fields in specific years as of 
2019. He highlights the figures in the "Environment/Ecology" field, and the citation figures in the 
10th percentile for the years 2013, 2015, and 2017. We note that the Scientometrics article indicates 
that the relative citation rates given by Thomson Reuters (now Clarivate Analytics) are based upon 
citation figures from its own database, the Web of Science. However, the record does not include 
complete citation figures for each of the Petitioner's published works from the Web of Science, only 
a summary of the total citations from 14 unidentified articles published by the Petitioner. Since the 
complete citation figures in the record from Google Scholar cannot be reliably compared to the relative 
citation rates in the record, this evidence does not show that the number of citations to the Petitioner's 
research are within any particular percentile within his field, or that they indicate that his published 
work remarkably impacted or influenced the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted other evidence regarding this aspect of his research in response to the 
Director's RFE. This included emails from other researchers seeking assistance in applying the model 
developed in part by the Petitioner. For example, an email from researchers at the University of I ltd I states that his research "onl I has been of great 
help to us," and includes an email from him to the Petitioner seeking assistance in answering the 
5 
researchers' questions about his model. Another email sent directly to the Petitioner from the 
representative of a company developing '---~-------' seeks a meeting with him regarding 
"technology gaps" in this area. These emails show that the Petitioner is considered to be an expert in I !prediction and prevention, and also confirm some interest in tools which he developed 
or improved upon from researchers in academia and industry. But these examples, when considered 
with the other evidence regarding the Petitioner's contributions relating tol I prediction 
and prevention, are insufficient to establish that his contributions were of major significance to the 
field of environmental and chemical engineering. 
The third aspect of the Petitioner's research which he asserts is an original contribution of major 
significance concerns two software modules he helped to develop to reduce the amount of freshwater 
needed td I in oil wells. The record includes a reference letter froml I 
a principal investi ator atl I where the Petitioner completed a three-month graduate research 
internship. explains that the Petitioner provided "invaluable contributions" to a project 
focused on "optimizino--___ __,_ontrol in thel t She explains that he developed one 
software module, the Monitor Module, and helped to develop a theoretical model called thel I 
Module, both of which allow the company to determine the amount of freshwater necessary to prevent I ~ I !further states that the use of these models greatly reduced water usage and 
has savedl !millions of dollars, and that the project was nominated for a company award and 
resulted in a conference paper. 
While this letter demonstrates thatl I implemented the Petitioner's work for this project, the 
record does not include evidence showing that either the software modules generated interest beyond 
the company to the broader oil and gas industry, or otherwise constituted a contribution of major 
significance in the field of environmental anr chemical engjneerin,. We note that the reference letters 
fror land! I of._ ________ __,_ also mention the Petitioner's work 
for I on this project, but neither of them indicate that they have first-hand knowledge of the 
project or the software modules developed. In addition, althoug~ I indicates that this paper 
was selected as a keynote talk for the conference, the record does not show that it has been frequently 
cited by other researchers in their own published work. 
After review of the evidence and for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
6 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11211975 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 07, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[ n] media management expert, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a media management expert residing inl..__~__.----"-'A=t--=t=h-=-e--=t=im=-=-e--=o=f--'f=il=in=g=,'-'h=e=---'-w'"""a=s'""'a"'-, 
general manager forl I and co-founder of thel.__ ____________ ____.l 
I 1. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitionerhadnotmetany of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiaiy 
criteria relating to judging, original contributions, leading or critical role, and salary. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has established that he meets only one of 
the ten criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
Evidence of the alien's participation. either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied .field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion in part through his service as a judge forthd I DA ward and submits evidence, such as documentation aboutthe award, his invitation to participate 
as a judge of it, and confirmation that he completed his duties in that capacity. The documentation 
describes thel I Award as "an industrial award for outstanding technology reports" whose 
purpose is "to find and encourage in-depth reports" and to "help outstanding technology news content 
creators." This is sufficient to demonstrate that the award is more likely than not offered to others in 
the same or allied field of media management, the area of specialization for which the Petitioner seeks 
classification. The Petitioner's invitation to judge the award and confirmation demonstrate that he 
2 
completed his duties as a judge for this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that he 
meets this criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary in this matter.1 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the petitioner must establish both that he played a leading or critical 
role, and that the organization or establishment for which he played that role is recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation. If in a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is ( or was) a 
leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is (or was), in fact, 
leading.2 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not met this criterion as evidence in the 
record did not clearly distinguish between the multiple roles the Petitioner played in each company in 
a manner sufficient to establish that these roles were, in fact, leading. For the reasons discussed 
below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established his eligibility for this criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a leading role forl I as a management 
committee member and general manager. To establish this, he provides an orrnizational chait 
identifying him as general manager, one of six positions reporting directly to the I 
management committee, and indicating that he is responsible for advertising, marketing, the sales 
agency, and publication. The organization chart further shows that the Petitioner is a member of this 
management committee. The Petitioner further submits a translated document titled "Economic 
Responsibility Audit Repmi" describinr his duties as general manager forl I as being 
"fully responsible forl :s advertising, operation, and management." This is sufficient 
to show the Petitioner's leading role forl I 
However, the regulation also requires that the Petitioner submit evidence establishingthat~I --~ 
I I has a distinguished re utation. To do so the Petitioner submits articles from the New York 
Times, an aiiicle fro .com and a 2015 Foreiczn Po lie aiiicle. TheForeionPolic 
aiiicle states that althou h 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
benefit sought have been satisfied from the time of filing continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). Here the Petitioner provides evidence indicating that although! I may 
have enjoyed a distinguished reputation in the past, it does not continue to do so at present. Without 
evidence demonstrating thatl I cunently holds a distinguished reputation, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has satisfied this eligibility requirement continuing through 
adjudication, as required. 
With regard to the New York Times articles, although they describd I briefly as I I' they primarily focus on actions atl , I to counter Chinese 
censorship. The Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating how these actionsreflectl I 
1 le a ckooufedge the Petitioner's argument on appeal that he also meets this criterion through his service as a judge of 
the,.__ __ .....,Award. However, as discussed, the Petitioner has already demonstrated he meets this criterion. 
2 Sec 6 USCJS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
___ ...__s _d_is_ti_n....., ished reputation. With respect to the._l ___ ___,lcom article, while it indicates that 
is one of the four most valuable new a ers the article highli hts the success of the ---------''-------~ L_ _____ _,-----1----1 which ow itself 
For example, the~ ___ ....... com article calls 'the most influential 
in China" and notes that the media group had been "selected as one of the '~~----~-~ 
for seven consecutive ears." The Petitioner does not submit evidence showing 
how the success of~ ____________ _.demonstrates thatl I enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. It is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Absent evidence showing that either censorship actions or the reputation of I I demonstrates that~ _____ _,.....enjoys a distinguished 
reputation, the Petitioner has not established that his leading role there meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he serves in a leading role as I I "co-founder 
Publisber!Pmducer Cbainuan :nd CEO" He submits registration information rod I 
I l 3 from the National Enterprise Credit Information 
PubliciT System, a letter of recommendation froml l chief editor ofi l D I s organizational structure, and media aiiicles. The registration documentation lists the 
Petitioner as one of three shareholders in that entity, but the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
establishing the duties he performs in his role as a shareholder. As we note above, a title, with 
matching duties, may help to establish that a role is leading. 4 Absent information on the duties the 
Petitioner performs as a shareholder, this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's role 
is a leading one. 
I ts letter of recommendation describes the Petitioner as having as having "single-
handedly founded the entirel I' but lacks detailed examples of the duties the 
Petitioner performed in a leading role fo~ I Further, I I did not indicate how he 
has personal knowledge of the significance of the Petitioner's leading role or that the author employed 
the Petitioner. Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's 
leading or critical role can be paiiicularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the alien's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. Further, the regulation at 8 CFR 204.S(g)(l) 
provides, in relevant part, that evidence of experience "shall" consist of letters from employers. 
Absent detailed examples of the duties the Petitioner perf. ormed in foundi~formation 
regarding Is personal knowledge of the Petitioner, and evidence that L__jemployed 
the Pefoioner thi~ letter is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's has performed in a leading role 
forl~--· --~J 
With respect to the organizational chart, this document indicates that the Petitioner is I l's 
chairman, CEO, and publisher. However, one news article in the record identifies the Petit/oner as 
I ~s general manager and a second article in the record discusseJ~----~-s return 
to I , I as its chief executive officer. These articles are discrepant with the organizational 
3 The Petitioner indicates in the brief accompanying the underlying petition that this is~I ---~i's registration 
documentation. 
4 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManualF.2(B)(2), supra. 
4 
chart above. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies in the record with independent, objective 
evidencepointingto where the truth lies. MatterofHo, 19 I&NDec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Absent 
evidence reso lvingthe roles performed by the Petitioner fo~._ ____ ___.khe Petitioner has not shown 
that he has served in a leading role for that entity, as asserted. 
In addition, the Petitioner does not submit evidence sufficient to demonstrate I l's 
distinguished reputation. For example, the Petitioner provides photographs and descriptions of 
awards received by magazines owned b~ land media articles regarding these magazines' 
staffing selections. However, this regulation provides that the Petitioner must establish the 
distinguished reputation of the entity for which he claims to serve in a leading or critical role. Here 
as discu1sed above, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion through his leading role for□ I _ Although the evidence regarding these magazines indicates that they enjoy a distinguished 
reputation, the,...,_,,~,~~rn~"='•~n~._,,,es not submit evidence showing how these magazines' reputations 
established tha en· o s a distinguished re utation. The Petitioner also provides evidence 
demonstrating that~----~ invested in but does not submit documentation 
showing how this investment demonstrate ~---~'s distinguished reputation. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not offered evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that he was "unable to compare the evidence of 
earnings" in the record with that of others in the field in paii because "it appears ... bonuses and other 
financial incentives are included" with the Petitioner's salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director is incorrect and that his base annual salary of 
Renminbi (RMB) 1,544,633.50 does not include a bonus or other financial incentives and also 
demonstrates his eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the record includes the Petitioner's certificate 
of income dated August 2019, his tax return dated October 2019, an updated December 2019 tax 
return, and evidence relating to the salaries commanded by others in his field. 
Upon review, we first note that the Petitioner has not established that, at the time of filing, he had 
commanded a salary of RMB 1,544,633.50. Specifically, while the December 2019 income tax return 
submitted by the Petitioner corroborates this higher amount, the tax return includes income earned for 
the tax periods November 2019 and December 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). Without evidence establishing the Petitioner's salary at 
the time of filing, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that this salary is high relative to that of 
others in the field. 
This notwithstanding, we also consider evidence in the record relating to the Petitioner's income prior 
to filing the instant petition. We note that the August 2019 income certificate reflects an income 
totaling RMB 1,517,226 at the time the instant petition was filed. However, as the Director noted in 
his decision, evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate whether this income reflects the 
5 
Petitioner's salary, his salary and a bonus, or other remuneration. Specifically, the August 2019 
income certificate does not indicate whether this total income includes a bonus. The October 2019 
tax return shows that on May 08, 2019, the Petitioner made two tax payments -one payment 
described as "Normal Salaries" and one with a translated description of "One-time Bonus Income for 
the Whole Year," while the December 2019 tax return lists two tax payments on the same date in the 
same amount but attributes these items to payments for "Salary income." The Petitioner must resolve 
these incongruities in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, at 591-92. Absent evidence resolving whether the Petitioner's reported income 
represents his salary, salary or bonus, or some other remuneration, the record is insufficient to establish 
the salary commanded by the Petitioner at the time of filing. 5 As we note above, absent evidence 
establishing the Petitioner's salary at the time of filing, the record does not sufficiently demonstrate 
that the Petitioner commanded a high salary relative to that of others in his field. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the two criteria relating to leading or 
critical role or to high salary. Although he claims to meet an additional criterion on appeal relating to 
original contributions of major significance, we need not reach this issue. We will reserve the issue 
as the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3).6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's extraordinary 
abilityundersection203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. As such, we neednotdeterminewhetherhe is coming 
to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b )(l)(a)(ii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1iheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not suppmi a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perfonning at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinaiy 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
5 We note that the Petitioner has offeredevidenceofsalaries from the U.S. DepartmentofLabor's CareerOneStopwebsite. 
However, these are wage statistics for the U.S., while the Petitioner is employed in China. Nonimrnigrants working in 
different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, ra therthan by 
simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewingwhetherthatsalarywould be considered high in the United 
States. See 6 USC IS Policy Manua!F.2(8)(2), supra. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); sec also MattcrofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
6 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, I 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 07, 2024 In Re: 31381446 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive specializing in forensic investigations, fraud prevention and 
information security, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification but did not establish, as 
required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at 
the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). While we conduct de novo review on 
appeal, Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015), we conclude that a remand 
is warranted in this case because the Director's decision lacks analysis and discussion of the evidence 
in the record and is insufficient for review. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who: have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation; seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these ten criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to judging the work of others in 
the same field, authorship of scholarly articles, and performance in a leading or critical role with 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) and (viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to lesser nationally recognized awards or prizes, membership in associations that require 
outstanding achievements of their members, original contributions of major significance in his field, 
and receipt of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v) and (ix). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which they considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the 
Director's final merits analysis fails to address most of the evidence he submitted and should be 
overturned for that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director's final merits analysis is lacking a detailed 
discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted 
evidence related to seven of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion 
only briefly addresses evidence relating to the three criteria the Director determined that he had 
satisfied, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. Such evidence included documentation 
related to the Petitioner's receipt ofan award that garnered him some media attention, evidence related 
to his professional memberships accompanied by letters explaining their significance, evidence of his 
contributions to the field, evidence related to his prior leading role as the founder of a successful 
2 
company, and reference letters that address his standing in his field. Because the Director did not 
consider any ofthis evidence in the final merits determination, the decision did not sufficiently address 
why the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. Further, in the 
final merits analysis, officers must consider any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even if 
such evidence does not relate to or satisfy any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). See 
generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
An officer must fully explain the specific reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(a)(l)(i). In adjudicating a petition filed under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, the officer must 
articulate the specific reasons why they concluded that the petitioner has not demonstrated by a 
preponderance of the evidence that the person has extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons 
discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. As such, 
the Petitioner was not provided a fair opportunity to contest the decision. Cf Matter ofM-P-, 20 T&N 
Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to 
allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should 
include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional evidence the Petitioner has 
provided on appeal and the evidence submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15508867 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 8, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineering services company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an engineer and data 
scientist, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
While he was a graduate student at the.__ ________________ _,, the Beneficiary 
co-wrote 15 journal articles and conference presentations. After the Beneficia received his doctorate in 
late 2016, the Petitioner hired him as a senior en ineer in its division, working 
with technology related t_.__ _________________ ___.. The Petitioner states that 
the Beneficiary's duties entail "developinr predictive analysis models to improve! I in 
buildings," "designing regression models_ 0 00 l designing complex software and 
hardware applications, and tracking and maintaining assets." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that it also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two claimed 
criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary "is internationally recognized for his round­
breaking developments in the field of risk analysis and probabilistic modeling ~f_or~-~---~ I I rThe Beneficiary] is internationally acclaimed for developing simulatio models that 
allow the designer to evaluate thd I impacts of~--------~" 
The Petitioner quotes at length from three previously submitted letters, and contends that these letters, 
and others in the record, are credible evidence of the Beneficiary's impact on the field, to which the 
Director did not give enough consideration and weight. 
To determine whether a petitioner has met their burden under the preponderance standard, 1 we 
consider not only the quantity, but also the quality (including relevance, probative value, and 
credibility) of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010); Matter o_f E­
M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989). The very submission ofletters signed by third parties does 
not satisfy any evidentiary burden or otherwise create a presumption of eligibility. Rather, we must 
consider the content of the letters. 
Each letter includes one or more paragraphs of highly technical language describing the nature of the 
Beneficiary's work, either preceded or followed by general assessments that the contributions thus 
described are of major significance in the field. Presenting the information in this way, however, does 
not explain why or how the Beneficiary's contributions are of major significance. Explaining the 
significance of the Beneficiary's work is not simply a matter of describing that work. 
Also, in many instances the technical language in the letters is not simply the letter writer's summary of 
the Beneficiary's work. Rather, the letters include lengthy passages copied from the Beneficiary's 
articles, presented without attribution, and sli:htly modified in a manner that obscures their origin. For 
example, a letter signed by the chair of1 _ Is School of I I includes this 
passage: 
The significance of this research is that [the Beneficiary] and his co-authors defined 
and simulated the standard construction details and inferred the uncertainty range ofD 
!effects with the limited in situ data that is 
~av-ai-la_b_l_e ___ R_e_s_u_l-ts_o_f~1-_-----
0-_~ls_i_m_u~lations ~.em ta srnwest caostrnctiao detail 
design will have a relatively large impact on the[ I 
properties of thd I 
The above passage is mostly identical to wording on page 2232 of a 2014 conference paper by the 
Beneficiary, which is in the record: 
We defined and simulated the standard construction details and inferred the uncertainty 
range o~ I effects with the limited in situ 
data that is available. The I I simulations lead to the following 
1 Under this standard. a petitioner must show that what it claims is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. 
3 
conclusions: (1) Construction detail design will have a relatively large impact on the 
I I properties of th~ I ... 
There are other shared passages as well, but the above example serves to demonstrate the point. 
Another letter, signed by an associate professor at~I --~I University, includes this passage: 
[The Beneficiary] modeled the mean profiles ;:::an:.:.:d::........:v-=a::..:ri=ab=-1::.·h::.·tyL....:o:..:f-==::,:;-~---~ 
(presence and actions) se aratel . He used al I distribution to 
generate mean profiles of while the variability will be represented 
by ~---.----.....---~series model, within a framework I I that 
synthesizes.___ __ _. ....,......_.........._..........,d from I I [The Beneficiary] also 
presented the variants of models with res ect to various outcomes of interest 
such a--,__ ________________ __.behavior via a sensitivity analysis. 
Simulation results in the Beneficiary's] work suggest that the approach is able to 1enerate I 
~--------' profiles, requiring minimum additional input from the 
modeler other than standard diversity profiles . 
. . . Another practical contribution of this work is the realization that accurate knowledge 
of the mean profiles is sufficient -that is models do not la a 
significant role in the prediction of L---------r---,_ _______ ____J I lwhere the interaction between the operation o systems and the spatial 
and temporal variabili!YI I is weak. When it comes tol lbehavior, I I should be taken into account, as static profiles are not able to 
produce adequate estimates o~~-----~probabilities close to theLJ peak. 
The above language is taken almost word-for-word from the abstract of a 2016 article by the Beneficiary, 
reproduced in the record: 
In this paper, we model the mean profiles and variabili of (presence 
and actions) separately. We will use a~-------~distribution to generate 
- while the variability will be represented by al~-~ 
series model, within a framework I J I that s nthesizes 
1-----~d-at_a_g ..... athered frortj I We then discuss variants o 
models with res ect to various outcomes of interest such a ~---------~ 
L_ _____ ,.....'-"-"'-'.......,~L.......L.......,.......,.""'"""','·tivity analysis. Results show that our approach is 
abll to geTrate~------~profiles, requiring minimum additional input from 
the modeler other than standard diversity profiles. . . . Such a findin . . . roves 
that accurate knowledge of the mean profiles is sufficientl-'-th....:.a;_;_t_is.:..e...i. _______ .....,.. 
models do not play a significant role in the prediction of L_ ______ ---1----1 
where the interaction between the operation o ~---' 
~s_y_s-te_m_s-an-d-th-e-sp-a-t1-.a-l_a_n_d~temporal variabili7I lis weak. When it comes to ~----~I behaviorJ 1 ~ ...) should be taken into account, as static 
profiles are not able to produce adequate estimates otj !probabilities close 
to thd I peak. 
4 
Nearly verbatim passages from the Beneficiary's own work cannot serve as independent evaluations of 
his work, and have little weight as corroborative evidence of major significance without explanations of 
the significance of such work. 2 This is a significant issue because those letters are central to the 
Petitioner's contentions about the significance of the Beneficiary's contributions. 
The Petitioner also documents citation of the Beneficiary's published work, but the Petitioner has not 
submitted independent data to show how heavily the Beneficiary's work is cited relative to other 
published work in the same area. The record therefore lacks an objective basis for comparison to establish 
the significance of the citation figures. 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary has made original scientific contributions, but has not 
established that those contributions are of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that at the Beneficiary "held a critical role as a Research Assistant 
in the~---------~ Lab." The director of that laboratory describes various projects in 
which the Beneficiary participated and courses that the Beneficiary taught, but does not explain how these 
roles were critical to the lab at the organizational level. Furthermore, the Petitioner submits background 
evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of I I as a whole, and of its School of 
[,--___ ,lbut this evidence is general in nature and does not establish that the I I 
l~--~l'[ai,has a distinguished reputation in its own right. Because reputation is a function of outside 
perception, statements by an official of the lab are not sufficiently independent evidence that the lab has 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted objective evidence to show that the 
Beneficiary performed in a critical role at the institutional level for I I On appeal, the 
Petitioner does not directly address this conclusion. Instead, the Petitioner repeats earlier assertions that I ts l I Lab is an internationally recognized leader" in its field. The 
Petitioner cites no evidence to support this claim except to state that the lab received government research 
grants. The Petitioner does not establish that the awarding of such grants is a sign of distinction in the 
field, rather than the expected result of meritorious grant applications. 
The senior director of Engineering and Development at the Petitioner's I I describes the 
Beneficiary's role there, stating: "As a data scientist ... , [the Beneficiary] performs automation detection 
and diagnosis of1 ~ to drive common approaches tol Ito being more 
predictive through physical models and machine learning." The official cites the Beneficiary's co­
authorship of three patent applications, and states that the Beneficiary developed "a machine learning 
based approach" for data capture that "will potentially save the company three (3) full time employees 
... and will serve as a solid cornerstone to all future digitally delivered service projects." The Petitioner 
2 Other letters use similarly technical language to describe other articles by the Beneficiary, but those articles are not reproduced 
in the record for direct comparison with the letters describing them. As a result, the record does not show whether these letters, 
too, rely heavily on unatttibuted quotations from the Beneficiary's work. 
5 
does not submit an organizational chart or other information to establish the Beneficiary's position within 
the division or the company as a whole. 
With respect to distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submits printouts from the website of thel I I O I division, but that website consists of promotional material intended to persuade prospective 
clients, rather than objective evidence of the division's re utation. On appeal, as above, the Petitioner 
repeats its prior assertion that its "division o is a leadin rovider of automation 
technologies and services for.__ _______________________ ___. The 
Petitioner also quotes extensively from the company official's previously submitted letter, which is not 
independent evidence of the division's reputation. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Beneficiary's activities as a judge of the work of others do not appear to extend beyond routine peer 
review, and the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's published work has had an impact 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. The Beneficiary has made valuable 
contributions atl land then at the petitioning company, but the Petitioner has not shown 
that these contributions have earned recognition that would place the Beneficiary in the small 
percentage at the very top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17323258 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 08, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the chairman and general manager of anl !company, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. Accordingly, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
~ record reflects that the Petitioner is the chairman and general manager o~ L.J, a.__ ______ _. company located inl I China, which he fo~u_n_d-ed-1-.n-1_9_9_8 __ -~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional, major trade publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets all six criteria and contends that the Director improperly rejected, 
disregarded, or overlooked evidence that establishes his eligibility for the requested classification. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that he 
meets the criterion relating to leading and critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He has 
2 
established that he holds the senior leadership role with~--------~ and submitted 
sufficient supporting documentation to establish the company's distinguished reputation in its 
industry. However, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore, he has not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he, rather than his employer, is 
the recipient of prizes or awards that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the awards documented in the record 
are nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in the field. The Director further o bseived 
that some of the awards appeared to provide government grant funding for future research and 
development efforts rather than awarding excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that the evidence he submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) included 
detailed descriptions of the awards and the processes for granting them, and was sufficient to establish 
that all elements of the criterion were satisfied. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that almost all the evidence submitted under this criterion identifies I I rather than the Petitioner, as the named recipient of the awards or prizes. 
Even if we determined that such awards were nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes 
for excellence in the field, only awards received by the Petitioner satisfy the plain language of 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). Nevertheless, we will briefly discuss evidence related to the awards received by the 
Petitioner's employer. 
Many of the documented awards and prizes in the record were granted by the Management Committee 
of the I I High Tech Industrial Development Zone. These awards included monetaty 
incentives or subsidy components that the Director characterized as "research grants." The record 
contains a letter from the office manager for the development zone, which specifically discusses the 
I ~Award" and states thatj I has been "the only enterprise in I ;dustry to win this award." He explains that the award is intended to 
"recognize and award a group of emerging enterprises from the Development Zone ... that have made 
outstanding contributions to the regional economic development." The letter goes on to describe the 
factors considered in granting this award to an enterprise but it ~oes not io~icate that the Pritioner 
himself was the recipient of this or other awards bestowed on~---~-------' by the 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on thereviewof evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 Id. 
3 
1---------'.c!;.H~i=--'T:c...:e::.:;ch Industrial Development Zone. A second letter from the same official discusses 
i...--------..L'...i.l...J,ili J..l,1 <.....l.!..Lf_"H.!....!..!.i!iii,Jh..!......!.T~h Enterprise" and its receipt of'----------~ 
'---------~~-------' awards in both 2015 and 2018, but again does not identify 
the Petitioner as a recipient of these awards. 
Fmiher, we agree with the Director's dete1mination that the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate 
that these awards are nationally or internationally reco ized awards for excellence, as eligibility 
appears to be limited to companies o r in in h High Tech Industrial Development 
Zone. This evidence establishes that.__ ______ ~has consistently received recognition from 
the municipal or regional government for its research and development efforts, innovation and growth 
in the years leading up to the filing of the petition. However, it does not demonstrate that the various 
incentive awards and titles granted byl IHigh Tech Industrial Development Zone tol I I • lvere nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence or thatthey 
were received by the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner also claimed recei t of a First Prize award 
and a.__ ______________ __. Second Prize award in 2015 and 2019, respectively. 
With respect to the 2015 prize, the submitted award ce1iificate identifid I as "winne1)' of 
this prize for the project 
.__ __________________ ___.' A separate list of 2015 's winners acknowledges 
two companies and 15 individuals associated with the project referenced above but does not identify 
the Petitioner or.__ _______ ~ among those named contributors. Similarly, information 
regarding the 2019 second prize project identifies I ~ and several other individuals as main 
contributors but does not name the Petitioner or his company among the acknowledged winners. 
While testimonial evidence indicates that the Petitioner's company contributed to these two award­
winning projects, the evidence does not support a determination that he or the company received the 
resulting awards. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that.__ ________ _. was awarded a certificate as a I I 
,__ ___ ___,~ Well-known Brand Product" by the China Industrial I !Association in 2020, 
but this certificate was not accompanied by evidence regarding the award or the national or 
international recognition associated with it, or evidence that the Petitioner himself was a recognized 
recipient of the award. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted evidence related to awards received by that 
were s onsored or awarded b Henan Daily news a er. These awards included: 
i-----------,_ _____ ____J(2015); and (2) ',......__..,__ __ --,----------------,1 
(2016 and 201 7), awarded jointly by,___ _ _. Daily andL_ ____ ---r------,.1 
In addition, in 2018, the Petitioner was named as a .__ _____ __,_ ____________ ......._ ____ .....__ __ --:....~ 
L.._ __ ____,r------,__ _________ ____J by Henan Daily. A letter from Henan Daily 
journalis ~-----__.briefly describes the selection processes for these awards.I I states 
that each winning company and individual is "a leader in the industry" and thatthe awards are "granted 
in line with various regulations of the provincial government, representing the recognition of the 
provincial government to some extent, while also expressing the public opinion of the readers." 
4 
On appea.l, the Petitioner maintains that the Director impro~rly dilsregrded these awards becam,e 
they were bestowed by a "local publication," notwithstandin s statement that thel I 
Daily is '"the most prestigious and influential newspaper in province." However, as noted 
above,I !explained that consideration for such awards was limited to those companies doing 
business in that province (and their leaders) and represent "recognition of the provincial government." 
Therefore, although the Petitioner established that he was a recipient of the 'I I I I award in 2018, the evidence submitted does not establish that this honor qualifies as a 
nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 3 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he satisfied this criterion because he is the resident of the 
~----------~!Association, the executive vice president of the '-----..----------,., 
Association, and "the Supervisor for The Political and Professional Style,...."-'f:c.,o"""r_t~h"-'=e'-========-. 
Municipal Bureau of Quality and Technical Supervision. Wi;=th""-=-re=s=-:e:..::c;...;;.t-=-to"-----"th=e=-----.------------' 
Association, the Petitioner provided a certificate which names.__ ______ _. as "Executive Vice 
President Unit" for this organization, but it does not mention the Petitioner's name. The Petitioner 
also submitted evidence intended to demonstrate that he is a member and director of the China 
.__ ____ ---,-_..._I_n_d_u_s_try-"---A-.ssociation and a member of the China General Machin9nr Jodustn1 Association Equipment Branch, but the certificates provided reflect thatl I ,-------------' ~---~ ~---~ rather than the Petitioner, is a member of these associations. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that he did not provide evidence that any of these 
associations require outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field and advised that evidence such as the associations' bylaws or 
constitutions could be submitted to document the associations' membership requirements and 
membership approval procedures. 
The Petitioner submitted additional evidence in response to the RFE, including a certification letter 
from the China I I Industry Association. This document confirms tha~ I D has been a member of the association since April 2020, states that "every member company" is "a 
leader in the industry," and indicates that the Petitioner "has been elected by the member companies 
and appointed as the Director of the Association and Deputy Director of the I I 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultirna tely granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
Professional Committee," based on the success of the company he leads and "outstanding 
achievements in the field of 
This evidence does not establish, however, thatthe Chin~ I Industry Association admits 
individual members and that outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international expe1is, in the field are an essential condition for such membership. The certification 
from the association is not sufficiently detailed in explaining the association's general membership 
requirements, or the selection requirements and processes for director and committee leadership 
positions. As noted, the evidence indicates that this association admits "member companies" rather 
than individual members. The record also contains additional background information regarding this 
association which mentions its "500 member companies" but does not indicate that it admits individual 
members or provide further insight into the requirements that apply to company membership or elected 
positions. There is insufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner's elected "director" and 
"deputy director" roles require outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in this field. 
The Petitioner's RFE response included similar evidence related to the China General Machinery 
Industry Association, I I Equipment Branch. He rovided a "Certification" from the 
association's secretary general indicating that.__ ___ ~----..---- ......... ...,-.. been a "member 
company" since March 2020, and stating that the Petitioner "serves as th....__ __ _.of this Association" 
based on his election by "the member companies." The certification briefly discussd I 
I I's reputation in the industry and the Petitioner's leadership of that company, but does not 
indicate that this association admits individual members based on their outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is in this field. Additional introductmy 
information regarding the China General Machinery Industry Association describes its scope (2000 
member companies) and various branches but not does not provide farther insight into its membersrup 
requirements and conditions, nor does it establish that admission for membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 
Association and the The Petitioner provided similar certifications from the I I Association. The certi~fi-c-at-io-n----~--------~ 
Association president indicates that~---------~ is "the~---------~ 
of the association and that the Petitioner, as chairman of the company, has been appointed 
as "th ~--------~ of the association's council and elected as director of a committee 
by the association's member companies. The letter mentions his contributions and reputation in the 
industry, but does not discuss the association's requirements or review processes and procedures for 
company membership, does not mention whether the association admits individual members, and does 
not address the established criteria and processes used to appoint or elect individuals to leadersrup 
positions. As such the Petitioner has not provided the information needed to establish that he has a 
qualifying membership in the I !Association. The certification letter from the 
.__ __________ ___. Association states that the Petitioner was elected by the 60 member 
companies of the organization to serve as'.__ __________ ___. in 2019, but does not offer 
any additional information regarding the association, its membership requirements for individuals (if 
applicable), and its requirements pertaining to elected officers, nor does it provide information as to 
whether outstanding achievements as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts are 
an essential condition for membership or elected positions. 
6 
A "letter of certification" from the I I Market Supervision and Administration Bureau 
confirms that the Petitioner was hired as "a supervisor for the political and business ethical operations 
carried out by the bureau," but does not explain how being hired forth is position is equivalentto being 
admitted as a member of an association that requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
condition for membership. Although the bureau's letter states that it assessed potential supervisors 
based on factors such as their "industry representativeness" and "personal, professional and technical 
achievements" among other factors, the evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's 
supervisor role with this bureau satisfies the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the evidence discussed above "explained the requirements for 
membership," but for the reasons explained, this assertion is not persuasive. While the Petitioner 
submitted a brief ce1iification letter from each association in which he claims membership, the 
evidence does not address all elements of the regulation at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and is insufficient 
to demonstrate that he has a qualifying membership in an association that requires its members to have 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. Most or all the 
industry associations in which he claims membership appear to only admit company members. While 
the Petitioner's appointed or elected leadership positions are notable, the evidence does not 
demonstrate the formal requirements or processes related to these elections, and we cannot conclude 
that these roles satisfy the regulatory requirements. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the.field/or which classtfication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The D. irector acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several articles from the newsjaper Henan 
Daily, however, he determined that the articles are primarily aboutl rather than 
about the Petitioner. The Director also found insufficient evidence to establish that Henan Daily, 
based on the circulation figures submitted, is a major trade publication or otherwise qualifies as a 
major media. Finally, the Director observed that the Petitioner provided circulation data for The 
Washington Post and Boston Globe, but emphasized that he did not provide evidence that he had been 
featured in either of these publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "any article about the company, especially since each one 
quotes [the Petitioner], is actually about the [Petitioner], since he is functionally the company." The 
Petitioner emphasizes that he is the company's founder, inventor of its proprietary tech no logy and the 
public face of the company. The Petitioner also maintains that sufficient evidence was submitted to 
establish that Henan Daily qualifies as a major media publication rather than a mere "local 
publication," noting that the circulation statistics for two U.S. metropolitan newspapers with national 
circulation were provided as a basis for comparison. 
In support of his claim thatHenan Daily qualifies as major media, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot 
from the newspaper's website that provides an introduction to the publication, noting that it has a daily 
circulation of 530,000 copies, is "the official newspaper of the Henan Provincial Party Committee of 
the Communist Party of China," and that it "covers all the provinces and cities under the jurisdiction 
7 
ofHenan Province and all counties and districts." A letter fromHenan Daily journalist! I I !describes the newspaper as "the most prestigious and influential newspaper in Henan province 
with the highest circulation, unparalleled prestige, and tremendous social influence." Finally, the 
Petitioner submitted the above-referenced circulation information for The WashingtonPostandBoston 
Globe, noting that both newspapers "are recognized as having significant national distribution" despite 
having lower circulation numbers than HencmDaily. 
To establish thatHenan Daily constitutes major media, the Petitioner would need to provide objective 
evidence demonstrating that its circulation is high compared to the circulation statistics of other daily 
newspapers in the Chinese market. 4 Here, the Petitioner provided the newspaper's self-published daily 
circulation figure without providing any context of where that figure ranks among its peer publications 
in China. Comparisons to the circulation of two U.S. newspapers is considerably less relevant in 
demonstrating how Henan Daily qualifies as major media in China. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that Henan Daily qualifies as major 
media. 
As noted, the Director also determined that the submitted articles are not about the Petitioner and that 
some of them did not identify the author of the published material, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 
We note that several of the submitted articles from Henan Daily are similar in content, discussing the 
history o~ l milestones it has reached, the industry in which it operates, and the 
company's recent financial performance and activities. The earliest of the submitted articles, from 
December 4, 2015, does not identify the author of the article. The article includes one brief mention 
of the Petitioner, identifies him as the company's chairman, and ends with an indirect quote, attributed 
to him, about the company's plans for 2016. The second article, published on June 1, 2016, provides 
similar information regarding the company and its services, identifies the Petitioner as the chairman, 
and includes one quote from him. We note that the Petitioner and his leadership of the company are 
not the focus or subject of either of these articles. A third Hen an Daily article, published on May 31, 
2017, mention~ I. 's major customers, its 2016 financial results, its recent projects, 
and its collaborations with other companies. The only mention of the Petitioner comes in the last 
sentence of the translated article. This sentence a ears to be the caption for a photograph that 
accom anies the article. It states " t he chairman of the Petitioner I I 
[sic],~----------------------------~' As with 
the two preceding articles, we cannot conclude that this article is about the Petitioner. 
Anotherarticle ublishedinHenanDailyonJuly 19,2018,andtitled j I 
~-----------.====<--;;;;is::.....;about the 1 I' award launched by 
the newspaper to commemorat ~--~of entrepreneurship in Henan province. The Petitioner's 
photograph, name, and company affiliation appear in the article, as he was one of 40 entrepreneurs 
selected, but the article does not include any additional information about him and is not about him. 
In addition, this article does not include a byline or otherwise identify the name of the author. 
4 See 6 USCISPolicy Manual,supra, atF.2 appendix. 
8 
The remaining article, published in August 2018 and titled I I identifies the source as H enan Economic Daily, a~p_u_b_l-ic-a-ti_o_n_f __ o_r_w_h_1_· c_h_n_o_a_d_d-it-io_n_a~l 
information has been provided. Accordingly, the evidence does not establish that this article was 
published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. It is similar in content to 
the articles from Hen an Daily, as it discusses the company's history, milestones, performance, recent 
projects and anticipated future activities. This article mentions that the Petitioner founded the company 
in 1998, identifies him as the cmrent chai1man, and includes one quote from him. 
Even if the Petitioner had established that the submitted articles appeared in professional, major trade 
publications or other major media, we agree with the Director's determination that, although he is 
referenced, the articles are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this regulatory criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues that any article abou~ I is about him because he is 
"functionally the company," the aiiicles do not p01iray him in this light or go beyond briefly 
mentioning his name and his position within the company. The Petitioner also maintains that the 
Director's analysis "fails to consider longstanding law about publications in this context, referring to 
Muniv. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995). However, we observe that there is nothing in Muni to 
suggest that an article need only include an individual's name and occupation to be "about" that 
individual, regardless of the context or the remaining content of that article. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In evaluating the criterion, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted five letters of 
reference but determined that the letters "did not conform"to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) 
and therefore "off er no probative value." The Director also referenced evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's patents, noting that a patent alone is insufficient to meet this criterion and that "the 
contribution of the innovation to the field as a whole must be determined by USCIS on a case-by-case 
basis." The Director concluded that there was "no evidence" that the Petitioner's patents had resulted 
in significant commercial sales or had an impact on researchers in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the five expert letters that the Director disregarded were 
specifically submitted to explain the significance of the patents and his original contributions to the 
field. The Petitioner argues that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) applies to experience letters 
submitted in support of employment-based immigrant petitions in which an individual is required to 
document prior work experience and does not apply to letters submitted to establish that an individual 
has made original contributions of major significance consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
We agree that the Director did not have a valid basis for disregarding the letters of reference submitted 
in support of this criterion and will consider this evidence along with evidence related to patents issued 
9 
to.__ ________ __,, which list the Petitioner as an inventor. The Petitioner's initial evidence 
include a chart listing 42 patents, including their application/patent number, invention title, patent 
type, date of application and date of authorization. 5 The evidence shows that the utility model patents 
list the Petitioner as inventor and have been assigned to~--------~ or related subsidiary 
cornpames. 
The Petitioner provided a reference letter fro whq states tbat be is the Director and 
Chief Physician of th o inl I I I explains 
the medical use o and states that thel I 
produced b ,__ ______ _."are essential to the medical industry in thel : , I' noting 
that the cornpan is the rovince's lar est roducer o The Petitioner also submitted 
an article titled ' published by the website of a U.S. 
corn an in the.__ _______ __. While we do not doubt the medical field's reliance on~ 
~..---~~----..___,' s letter does not explain how~------~ s supply of industry-standard L_J 
t medical facilities amounts to an "original contribution" in the field, or how the company's 
products have impacted the field outside of the province. He also does not refer to any of 
~
1 t_h_p_a-
1t_e_n-ts~that list the Petitioner as inventor or the significance of any of those patents in the I I 
field. The fact that the Petitioner's company supplies cornrnonl I products for which 
there is an acknowledged demand is not sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitio,µ............,...,_,,,_--'-'-'-'""-'- ........ ""'--"L.l.><""""' ......... ..,,,_,_.~--......,....-____,...,.,..who states that he is the Deputy Technical 
Director fo and a member of several technical committees relating to 1he 
I I industry, including storage and transportation. In his letter he raises the 
Petitioner as a leader in thd I field, provides a list of industries in whic.1....r-----,____J 
Corn an 'sQroducts are used, and emphasizes that many important industries in and 
the rovince "rely on [ the Petitioner's] proprietary production and distribution processes." 
,___~also credits the Petitioner with personally organizing research and development projects "that 
have directly led to creation of critical devices," noting that such technologies are "now routinely used 
in the production and distribution of essential~---------~-~ He lists eight 
technologies or devices which appear to correspond to devices included on the submitted utility model 
patent list. However, he does not further describe or discuss these contributions ortheiruses or specify 
how they have had an impact or influence on the overall field. His general assertion that these devices 
are "routinely used" in the field is insufficient to establish their major significance. 
The Petition.r's initial evidence inrlud~d a letter from! I a professor at thel I 
University o1~. ---------~Jand Director of the I I Research 
Council. He does not state that he has any expertise or background in the Petitioner's field or indicate 
on what basis he is able to discuss the Petitioner's original contributions in the 
I !field.I I provides general information abou~ l._an_d_s_t-at_e_s -th_a_t t-h-el=='I 
produced by the company "is used in numerous industries" and "is essential to companies throughout 
I I because "they need I l[the company] produces to operate." He also discusses the 
company's research and development efforts, noting that "the company has multiple laboratories 
where experts design new techniques to make the use otl O 1 J by their client companies far 
5 The chart lists a total of 42 applications filed, of which 41 are identified as being of the "utility model" type and one i<; 
identified as an "inventorpatent." At the time the chart was prepared, 10 of the applications had not yet been approved. 
more efficient." Lastly, he credits the Petitioner with creating "a newl . !technology for the glass 
industry" that "increases discharge amounts by I 0-3 0%, reducing quality problems and decreasing the 
amount of bubbles in the glass." He does not further discuss this technology, indicate whether it is 
patented or how it is otherwise considered to be original, or address its importance and how it has 
already had an impact or influence of major significance in the industry. 
The fourth letter of reference was provided b~ la professor at the I I I I who states that he is "a recognized expert in air ollution control, catalysis and porous 
materials." He describes the Petitioner as '·a leader in the develo ment" and raises his 
commitment to research and development of proprietary technology at.___-,------~~----,., 
indicates that the Petitioner's specific achievements include "creation of.__ ____ ....------, 
technologies and D displacement and storage technologies in cooperation with the I I and the I lfield." He emphasizes that, base'-d-on_t_h-ei ..... r 
"groundbreaking" nature, these and other projects were recognized through receipt ofFirst and Second 
prizes fotj 00 0 I in thel I province. However, as discussed above, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner or his company received these awards. Further, although 
the Petitioner emphasizes that the reference letters provide explain how his patents qualify as original 
contributions of major significanceJ l's letter does not make any specific references to the 
Petitioner's patents. 
The final letter submitted in su ort of this criterion is from who states that he has 
served as the President of th..,_ _____ -,_ ____________ ~ _______ __, 
and as Senior Ex ert for the described as "the world's largest 
states th4tl 7 has workeLd_w-it~=--=--=-~---~,_on_"...Ja 
._s_u_c_c_e-ss_f_u:_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_-=_~-=_-=_-=_-:_-:_-=_~~-s-y-st__,em for th d .... _____ ~f"rield that will achieve long-te1m 
I lonservation an ~--~reduction." He also states that the Petitioner has created "exciting 
engineering application services for th9 I inqustrv" He desclribes one of these applicationsj 
noting that the Petitioner has introduced the use of I . to neutralize the ..,.I, ___ ____._ 
traditiona11¥ relied on strong acids to treat wastewater. ~--~explains tha~ I wastewater noting that these industrie; have 
I ]and through an automatic operation injects the wastewater to reduce itsl " He 
describes the technique as "an elegant solution" that is ultimately safer and more cost-effective than 
using strong acids, and notes that this technology "is rapidly replacing the conventional acid 
treatment." However, he does not specify whether the technique was created by the Petitioner or if he 
was simply the first to introduce it in his region, nor does he further elaborate on how widespread or 
influential the technique has become. 
The Petitioner maintains that "many of the concepts that [he] introduced are now industry standards 
in the industrial! I in China," but neither the letters discussed above nor the list of patents held 
b~ I provide sufficient support for this assertion regarding the widespread ~ct of his original work. The record shows that the Petitioner has built a successfuII I 
L__J company that appears to serve as a supp lier for many industries inl._ _ ____.l province, and that he 
has been credited with developing some of the company's proprietarytechnology. However, notevety 
patented device or technique is an original contribution of major significance within the meaning of 
this criterion. Here, the patents, letters and other supporting evidence indicate that the Petitioner's 
company has been recognized for its innovation and steady growth, but are not sufficient to 
11 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions have been widely implemented or otherwise had a 
major impact on the industry in which the company operates. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 The letters that praised the 
Petitioner for his professional achievements withl l but do not demonstrate their 
major significance in the field. The plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in 
the field" requires evidence ofan impact beyond one's employerand clients or customers. See Vis inscaia 
v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. The Petitioner provided 
an accountant-prepared "income certificate" which provides recent financial figures including his 
personal annual salary (including salary, bonus and allowances), his dividend income earned as a result 
of his partial ownership ofi I, his income from "personal real estate disposition," 
and financial information regarding the company's sales, costs, profits and undistributed profits. In 
an accompanying letter, the Petitioner emphasized that, although he takes a "nominal salary," his 
equity irl I equates to over $2 million. 
The Petitioner did not submit comparative evidence to demonstrate that his salary is high, or that his 
total remuneration is significantly high, in comparison to that of others employed in his occupation 
and geographic area. 7 Rather, he provided evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor-sponsored 
CareerOneStopwebsite (www.careeronestop.org), indicating that a "high" salary for a chief executive 
in the United States is "$208,000+" annually. Although the Petitioner relies on this document as 
evidence that his total earnings are high, the base salaries of U.S. executives do not provide an 
appropriate comparison for the total remuneration of a chief executive and shareholder who resides 
and works inl I China. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter froml l's chief financial officer, who 
provides inf mmation regarding the percentage of company shares owned by the Petitioner (both 
individually and jointly with his family) and notes that he was entitled to significant undistributed 
profits which he instead opted to reserve for the future operation of the company. In his brief, the 
Petitioner notes that he was entitled to receive undistributed profits of over $1.5 million in 201 7, $1.75 
million in 2018, and $2.1 million in 2019. However, the record continues to lack comparative salaty 
and total remuneration data specific to the Petitioner's occupation and geographic location. Even if 
6 See 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2 appendix 
7 Id. (stating that persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable 
evidence in that country, ra therthan by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salmy 
would be considered high in the United States). 
12 
the Petitioner demonstrated that he received income in the stated amounts, we would still require a 
basis to compare his total remuneration to that of other executives in China. 
Without providing a proper basis for comparison of his salary and/or total remuneration in relation to 
others in China, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services. Accordingly, he did not demonstrate that he satisfies this 
criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has established that he meets only one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three to satisfy the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification. As this dete1mination is dis positive of the appeal, we reserve and 
will not address the Director's separate determination that he did not demonstrate that he seeks to enter 
the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, as required by section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5).8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
g Sec INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessaiyto the results they reach). 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 8, 2023 In Re: 26583404 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a petroleum engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish he 
had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Evidence ofthe alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work 
of others in the same or allied field and authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied 
any ofthe remaining categories. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met the evidentiary criteria 
relating to each ofthe areas upon which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing 
all the evidence in the record, not only do we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied 
the criteria regarding judging the work of others in the same or an allied field and authorship of 
scholarly articles, but we also conclude he satisfies one additional criterion. Because we conclude the 
Petitioner has satisfied that additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement. 
However, it is unnecessary that we evaluate the remaining claimed criteria because the Petitioner is 
only required to satisfy three of the regulatory requirements. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or 
was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of 
distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/ dictionary /distinguished). The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's role in several companies but concluded the evidence did not 
sufficiently establish these companies had distinguished reputations. On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
additional evidence regarding these roles, and in particular the leading roles he held as Head of the 
Department ofOperation ofLiquefied Natural Gas and Head ofthe Department ofNavigation Safety and 
Quality Management Systems for a subsidiary of his home country's largest independent producer of 
natural gas, which is also one of the world's largest public oil and gas companies in terms ofproduction. 
The Petitioner submits detailed descriptions of the duties he performed in these positions as well as 
detailed, credible, and probative letters of support confirming and describing those leading roles in 
meaningful detail, including the role the Petitioner played in the organization overall. The Petitioner also 
submits additional evidence regarding the company's reputation, including an extensive list with 
supporting documentation showing the prizes and awards the company won between 2005 and 2022. 
In summary, the credible evidence provided on appeal sufficiently demonstrates that, more likely than 
not, the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval ofthe petition. However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 8, 2023 In Re: 26387387 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marine biologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to judging and authorship, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
membership, published material, original contributions, artistic display, leading or critical role, and 
salary criteria. After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.3 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors.4 
H;..::..:.:er:...:e2.., ....::.th=e=--=P--=e..:.:ti..:.:ti:..:o.::n:.:..er:....Lp.:..ro=-v.:....:i..:.:d:.:..ed=--=a:.....:..:.M.:.:a=r..:.ch=--=2:...:0....::.l....:.7_1:..:e..:.:tt:..:e.:..r-=fr:..:o:..:m::.....:t=h=e-'-='M.:..:.::an=a:.:£g2.:e::.r....:o:..:f:....!:· l=====----'t at the L-----------~,------1-- ____________ __J in Ecuador 
stating that he "was approved as a Researcher Category 3, on July 25, 2014, by the 
Executive Committee of Scholarships of the.________ ___, ... to develop his research J.)roject, 
entitled 'Ecosystematic characterization of the benthic community in the I jand in 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
4 Id. 
2 
sandy beaches of the surrounding oceanic coast,' which was developed from September 10, 2014 to 
September 9, 2015, satisfactorily fulfilling all the objectives of the project." The Petitioner also 
submitted information about thel Ibut this documentation does not 
demonstrate the significance of his specific "Researcher Category 3" fellowship in the field of 
endeavor or show that his particular fellowship was recognized by the field in general rather than 
mainly limited to those associated with the In addition, the Petitioner submitted a 
June 2015 article in El Telegrafo, entitled' 
~--------------------------------~ ' This article 
does not mention the Petitioner or demonstrate that his 2014 fellowship has received media coverage 
or attention that rises to the level of national or international recognition. 5 Without farther evidence 
regarding its national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
hisl Ifellowship is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in 
the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he is a member of the International Biometric 
Society (IBS) and that he fulfilled the accreditation requirements of the I I as a foreign 
researcher working in Ecuador. He also presented information about the IBS' regular member 
"Qualifications" which stated that "[r]egular members are those individuals who are interested in the 
scope and purpose ofthe society." In addition, the Petitioner provided! !"Requirements 
for registration" which indicated that individuals "must have at least two (2) years of experience in 
research and/or technological development (R&D) activities; which must be endorsed through the 
presentation of certificates from the institution or institutions responsible for the R&D process, 
relevant works and/or indexed articles we will also be considered as endorsement." The Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the aforementioned IBS andl ~riteria (including interest in a society, 
two years of research experience, or authorship of papers) rise to the level of "outstanding" 
achievements. Without evidence indicating that receiving IBS membership or I I 
accreditation requires outstanding achievements and that admission to their membership is judged by 
recognized national or international experts, Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted a 2013 article in El Serviola (a ublication of the Universidad I,_______,I I entitled ,________________________ ~' This article is 
about a research project and only briefly mentions the Petitioner as the lead researcher. This regulatory 
criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about him do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) 
5 Nor did the Petitioner present circulation data for El Telegrafo. 
3 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Further, while the Petitioner 
asserts on appeal that El Serviola "is a major trade publication," he did not offer comparative circulation 
statistics or other evidence to corroborate his claim. 6 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his research articles, citation evidence for 
his published work, and letters of support from colleagues in the field. The Director considered this 
documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work 
constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 7 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that he provided letters of support from several experts "in 
the field ofmarine biology, which document the major significance of [his] work."8 These references 
discussed his research relating to the ecology of sandy beaches, but their statements do not demonstrate 
its major significance in the field. As discussed below, the reference letters do not offer sufficiently 
detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to show the 
nature of specific "original contributions" that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been 
considered to be of major significance. 
Dr. A-M-, the Petitioner's former academic advisor at S-B-University, indicated that the Petitioner's 
research articles about the influence of rivers on sandy beaches have "been used by other Latin 
American researchers" in their published work. For instance, Dr. A-M-stated that the Petitioner's 
findings relating to the beach clam Tivela mactroides allowed Dr. A-T-and his "collaborators to 
establish a theory that explains the mortality events ofthis organism." The record, however, does not 
include sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has affected the 
field in a substantial way beyond Dr. A-T-'s research team or otherwise constitutes a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
In addition, Dr. O-D-, a professor at U-R-, stated that his research team "used the results reported in 
the doctoral thesis of [the Petitioner]." Dr. O-D-farther noted that the Petitioner's work "contributed 
to understanding the patterns of diversity and species richness at a biogeographic spatial scale of 
benthic invertebrates associated with South American sandy beaches," but he did not offer specific 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
8 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
examples indicating that the Petitioner's findings have influenced the field of marine biology to the 
extent that they are of major significance in his field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work involving "ecological processes in the marine-coastal zone," Dr. 1-0, 
an associate researcher at F-U-R-G-, asserted that the Petitioner's scientific papers have contributed 
"to the understanding of the functioning of coastal marine ecosystems and sandy beaches, providing 
solid evidence for the proposal of ecological models that explain the patterns of spatiotemporal 
variations and how these can be modulated by fluvial nutrient inputs from the rivers that flow into 
them." We recognize that research must add information to the pool of knowledge in some way in 
order to be accepted for publication, presentation, funding, or academic credit, but not every finding 
that broadens knowledge in a particular field constitutes a scientific contribution ofmajor significance 
in that field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his research findings have been widely utilized 
or otherwise represent an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
As another form of evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) included June 2022 information from ResearchGate.net indicating that his body of 
published work had received 70 cumulative citations. 9 The Petitioner, however, did not identify how 
many were self-citations or independent citations. In addition, he did not establish how many of the 
citations occurred in papers published prior to or at the time ofinitial filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
Nor has the Petitioner compared the number of his authored works and their citation rate to other 
researchers in his field to differentiate his work as majorly significant. 
Notwithstanding the above, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the number ofcitations for any ofhis published 
articles is commensurate with contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner did 
not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For example, he did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. 
The information from ResearchGate.net also indicated that Petitioner's articles had "5,778 Reads." 
The Petitioner, however, has not shown that this online readership statistic indicates a contribution of 
major significance in his field. The appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown 
that his individual articles, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been 
considered important at a level consistent with original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient documentation to demonstrate that any of his 
published findings have risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field of marine 
biology. 
9 The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his cumulative number ofcitations represents contributions ofmajor significance 
in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than 
identifying which published research, if any, the field considers to be majorly significant. Here, the Petitioner does not 
explain or specify how the number of citations to his individual or particular articles resulted in original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively , the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien 's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner contends that presentations of his work at scientific conferences and seminars are 
comparable evidence for this criterion. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to 
submit comparable evidence if they are able to show that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . A petitioner should demonstrate that the 
standards described in the regulations do not readily apply to their occupation as well as that the 
evidence they have provided is "truly comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 10 
The Petitioner asserts that he "is not within an occupation that readily provides him with the 
opportunity to display his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The work of a marine biologist 
is scientific in nature . .. and requires display at scientific conferences and seminars. The Petitioner 
cannot display his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases because his work is not artistic in nature." 
He further contends that "the only difference between the Petitioner's display of work and that of an 
artist is the venue used to present the work. As such, [the Petitioner's] evidence is comparable 
evidence to that required by this criterion." 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that presentations at scientific conferences and 
seminars are truly comparable to the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . Rather, his 
scientific presentations are based on authored scholarly articles and therefore relevant for 
consideration as comparable evidence under the scholarly articles criterion, a criterion the Petitioner 
has already satisfied. Here, we do not consider scientific presentations to be truly comparable under 
the display criterion as the characteristics and nature of his scientific presentations are more akin to 
the scholarly articles criterion. The Petitioner therefore has not established that he qualifies for this 
criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation . 11 
The Petitioner submitted a June 2022 letter from W-M-F-, a sustainability senior advisor, discussing 
the Petitioner 's work for! IW-M-F- asserted that 
he formed these companies and that they provided "services for many oil and gas projects in 
Venezuela, for international companies like Chevron, Enron, Shell, Amoco, BP, and Perenco." The 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria 
are readily applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the 
criteria listed in that regulation). 
11 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (defining "distinguished" as marked by eminence , distinction , or 
excellence) . 
6 
Director determined W-M-F-'s letter was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner had performed 
in a leading or critical role for either company, or that they had distinguished reputation. 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner argues that '~-----------~ past business 
relationships with some of the most recognizable oil companies in the world is [sic] indicative of its 
distinguished reputation," but he did not offer evidence to corroborate the claims in W-M-F-'s letter 
regarding the existence of these business relationships. 12 Aside from mentioning that I II Ioffered services for various oil companies, W-M-F-'s 
letter does not elaborate on the reputation of his two companies or identify specific examples of 
evidence indicating that they have garnered a distinguished reputation. Nor did the Petitioner include 
I evidence of any media reports or Icompany awards, for example, showing how
reputation compares to other environmental com._p_a_n_i_e-s,_o_r_h_o_w_t_h_e_ir_. 
successes or accomplishments in the industry differentiate them from other businesses, indicating a 
distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. The limited information and 
evidence presented does not show that I Ihave a 
distinguished reputation. 13 The Petitioner therefore has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation (dated 2019) from E-S-P-L- (a public university in Ecuador) 
indicating that, as a "Professor" in the "Faculty of Life Sciences," he received monthly remuneration 
of $3,150.00. As evidence that his salary is high relative to others in the field, the Petitioner presented 
information from 2000carreras.com listing the "average salary" for "recent" graduates who are 
"beginning" their careers as a "Marine Biologist."14 Regarding the "average salary" data 
from2000carreras.com, the Petitioner must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field rather than just a salary that is above 
"average" in his field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that comparing his professor's salary to novice marine 
biologists (who recently graduated college and are at the beginning of their career) represents a proper 
basis for comparison. The Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has earned a high salary 
or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. 
App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is 
not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
12 Nonetheless, the Petitioner has not shown that having a business relationship with a larger company signifies a 
distinguished reputation. 
13 Since this issue is dispositive of this criterion, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the appellate arguments regarding 
whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts 
and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
14 The "Marine Biologist" salary information from 2000carreras.com stated: "Today we will take the case of a recent 
graduate. In 2021, the average salary is around 1,100.00 dollars per month when working full time .... This salary is at 
the beginning, the more experience and seniority you have in the area, your salary will be higher ...." 
7 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that the comparative salary data he offered shows that his 
earnings are high relative to others in his field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final 
merits determination. 15 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
15 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8768216 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 9, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an "alien of extraordinary ability" in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided documentation satisfying the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3), which requires documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least 
three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he would continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal from that decision. 1 The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
1 As we found that the Petitioner had not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, 
we found that we did not need to determine whether he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" 
under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) , and did not address the Director's separate finding with respect to that issue. 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 2 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been a competitive athlete, instructor, referee, and judge in 
several martial arts forms including kung fu, wushu, karate, and tai chi. He seeks to continue his work 
as a martial arts instructor in the United States. In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
but that he fell short of establishing several others. 3 In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues 
that he submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets the criteria related to lesser awards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).4 For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior 
decision. 
On motion the Petitioner disputes our finding that the record does not demonstrate that his gold medal 
at the0World Martial Artsl !championship is a lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field. We noted that the record includes what appears to be an 
fficial event photograph of the Petitioner with a medal, on which he is identified as the I I 
.--~-,Gold Medalist" which indicates that this event was sponsored by I I 
~--------~ and that the record lacks any other evidence related to this event or to the 
Petitioner's performance in the event, such as official results, a list of competitors, the event's entrance 
requirements or rules, or media coverage of the event. We emphasized that the language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's awards be nationally 
or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to establish every element of 
this criterion. We found that the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's win at thd I I I event constitutes his receipt of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in the field. 
2 The Petitioner did not include the required ·'statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
3 In our appellate decision, we noted that although the Petitioner stated that his gold medal at theLJWorld Martial Arts I !Championship is "comparable to a Nobel prize or other internationally recognized award," he did not 
specifically claim that it satisfies the one-time achievement criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(h)(3). Rather, the Petitioner 
submitted the award as evidence of his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We also noted that the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(4) does not allow for submission of "comparable evidence" relating to the one-time achievement of a 
major, internationally recognized award, nor does the record demonstrate that the noted award qualifies as such an 
achievement. On motion, the Petitioner does not dispute our findings. 
4 On motion, the Petitioner does not claim to meet the previously claimed criterion related to published material in certain 
media at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
In addition, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence that referenced his 
1 m 1 t the aforementioned event, including a letter from his current employer,! I 
'----~-~i_n_N~e~a_l~c~haracterizing his award as "a noteworthy and exemplary achievement as he is 
the first~-----~to bag this Gold Medal in the history o~World rartial Arts Championship," 
and a letter from the Rotary Club ofl I where he teache on a voluntary basis, stating 
that he "is the first I f to get this top award." However, we found that these 
statements from individuals who know the Petitioner personally but have not claimed or established 
expertise in martial arts are insufficient to establish that he won a nationally or internationally 
recognized award. We stated, for example, that the Petitioner has not shown that his win attracted the 
level of media attention that might indicate the award's national or international recognition, or 
submitted information about the individuals who participated in the event, including their caliber and 
skill level, which might reveal the prestige and recognition of the competition. 5 Although the 
Petitioner disputes our finding that the record does not demonstrate that his gold medal at thee=] 
World Martial Artsl !Championship is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field, disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred 
as a matter of law or policy or pointing to precedent decisions that contradict our analysis of the 
evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. 
Similarly, the Petitioner contests our finding that the evidence regarding his memberships was 
insufficient to satisfy that criterion. The Petitioner provided evidence that he was the I I I lofth~ !Kung Fu Association NepaL the I I of the Nepal World Martial 
Arts Association, an honorary member of the Nepal [ I Karate Association, and a member of 
the I I Karate Association. 6 Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that we did not 
properly evaluate the evidence regarding his honorary membership in the Nepal I I Karate 
Association. He claims that the statement contained in a letter from the Secretary General of Nepal 
~___,,.-~I Karate-do Association that his honorary membership was approved by the Central Executive 
Committee, and mentioning his "outstanding success and extraordinary achievement in the field of 
Martial Arts," is sufficient to satisfy this criterion. We found, however, that the Petitioner provided 
insufficient independent evidence of the membership requirements for this association and the record 
does not establish that membership qualifications are judged by recognized national or international 
experts. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that for this criterion we should consider 
"[t]he number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors" and that "an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution ... may have little national or international significance"). 
6 We noted that the submitted documentation indicated that the Petitioner was approved as a "Lifelong Member" in the 
.__ _______ ~Karate Association in November 2018, ten months after he filed this petition. Therefore, this 
evidence cannot establish his eligibility at the time of filing and we will not further address it. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). 
For the same, reason, we did not consider evidence indicating that the Petitioner was appointed as an honorary member of 
the World Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in October 2018. A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the 
petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter oflzummi, 22 T&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That 
decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 T&N Dec. 1 14 (BIA 1981 ), further provides that USCTS cannot "consider facts 
that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
3 
Similarly, we found that although a letter from~------.----,-----------~ the 
Association Co-ordination Section of the Nepal National Sports Council confirms the Petitioner's 
roles as both I I and, later.I lof the Nepali l Kung Fu Association, 
neither this letter nor the other evidence in the record mentions the membership requirements for this 
association to show that it requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. We noted that the Petitioner submitted little other information about thel I 
Kung Fu Association Nepal, other than that it was designated the National Martial Arts Committee 
(NMAC) of Nepal by the World Martial Arts Committee (WMAC) in January 2017, and found that 
without evidence of the association's membership requirements and selection criteria, we could not 
determine that the Petitioner's officer roles with this association meet the requirements of this 
regulatory criterion. 7 Again, while the Petitioner disputes our findings regarding this criterion, 
disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or policy or 
pointing to precedent decisions that contradict our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to 
reconsider our decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The assertions made by the Petitioner on motion do not establish that our previous decision was 
grounded in an incorrect application oflaw or policy. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8749303 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 9, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer who has performed with various ensembles and Latin musicians in her native 
country of Venezuela and in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
one of the evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.d. § 214.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the 
Petitioner 1articipated as a member of the jury for th Festival Internacional Orquidea de Oro in I Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. 1 We have 
reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her receipt of a Mara de Oro2 award in ~-~I In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prize or 
award, and that it is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prize or award was excellence in 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the published material 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal 
and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 This award is also referred to in the record as the "Golden Mara" award. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prize or award, the national or 
international significance of the prize or award in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 4 The Petitioner submitted a copy of her award 
certificate reflecting that she received thec=]Mara de Oro award for 1 lof the 
Year." Here, however, the record lacks sufficient objective evidence regarding the Golden Mara 
award to establish that it is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in 
music or the arts. 
The Petitioner submitted a document dated November 2016 that bears the logo of the Fundacion Mara 
de Oro de Venezuela e Internacional. The document indicates that the Mara de Oro is a "prestigious 
award" that "has as [its] mission to enhance the work of revealing personalities of radio, television, 
cinema, theater, dance, advertising, culture, politics and sports," and that "candidates are elected at the 
national level and from all over the world, without exception." The document also confirms that the 
Petitioner was awarded theOGolden Mara Award for '1 lofthe year," and provides 
the names of other "important personalities" and "prestigious journalistic institutions" who previously 
won the award. However, this document is not a letter and is not attributed to or signed by a 
responsible authority for that organization. As a result, we cannot determine the actual source of the 
information contained therein, which limits the probative value of this evidence. 
The Petitioner also submitted an undated letter addressed to her from ~----------~ Fundacion Mara de Oro de Venezuela e Internacional, that provides general information about the 
foundation and asserts that the Mara de Oro award is "the only award that has certification in the 
country." The letter also states the award is given inlmmce occecel based upon "the verdict ofthel I 
people, according to the results of surveys conducted in different media ... and the consensus of the 
Board of Directors of this Foundation." 
Upon review, we
1 agree
1 with the Director that while the Petitioner documented her receipt of the Mara 
de Oro award in the record does not establish that the award is a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in her field. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion on 
appeal that "the location of the bestowment of the award does not lessen its importance or determine 
that it is a local or regional prize," it remains that she did not submit evidence of the national or 
international recognition of her Golden Mara award, such as national or widespread local coverage of her 
award in arts, entertainment, or general media, showing that Mara de Oro award winners receive a level 
of media coverage that is commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the 
entertainment industry. The record also does not contain pertinent background information about the 
award from its organizer or another reliable source, such as a complete list of all of the award 
categories, the various levels of awards given, the criteria used to grant awards, or even whether all of 
the awards are deemed national in scope. Therefore, while the Petitioner documented her receipt of 
the Mara de Oro award in c=J the supporting evidence is insufficient to document that this is a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in her field. 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), she 
does not meet the additional criterion on appeal relating to nationally or internationally recognized 
awards. While she argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to 
membership in associations, we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.5 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in 
her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8468967 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 9, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pharmacology researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently an associate professor atl !University inl !Malaysia, 
conducting research that "addresses drug interactions involving natural products from marine and plant 
substances on diabetes and diabetes complications (wound healing and bone fragility)." The Petitioner 
is also a consultant for manufacturers of plant-based supplements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the three evidentiary criteria numbered (ii), (iv), and (vi), 
and proceeded to a final merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
other three claimed evidentiary criteria. 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets only two criteria: 
(iv), pertaining to judging the work of others, and (vi), pertaining to authorship of scholarly articles. 
Below, we explain why the Petitioner has not met the other four claimed initial criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claimed six qualifying prizes and awards, but did not establish that they meet all the 
requirements spelled out in the regulation. An entry in a I I Who 's Who directory is not a prize or 
award; a "Long Service Award" from the Petitioner's employer recognized the length of his employment 
and "excellent performance" in his job, rather than excellence in his field. The latter prize is also limited 
to employees of one university, rather than field-wide. The Petitioner also received a government 
scholarship, not as a prize for excellence in his field but to help fund his then-ongoing graduate studies in 
preparation for future employment for which he was not yet fully qualified and credentialed. 
Nigeria's High Commission in Malaysia (serving the same basic purpose as an embassy) gave the 
Petitioner a I O I Award," but the record does not say why, and therefore the Petitioner 
has not shown that this is an award for excellence in his field. 
The two remaining prizes relate directly to the Petitioner's work; he won ( or shared) third prize for 
presentations at two scientific conferences. But the Petitioner has not shown these prizes to be nationally 
or internationally recognized. Information about the reputations of the awarding entities does not 
establish or imply recognition of the prizes. 
The Petitioner has not established his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director found, without comment, that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner asserts membership in five associations. He has not shown that any of these associations 
meet the regulatory requirements at his membership level. For two associations, thel I Institute for 
Education and Research and the Malaysian Society of Pharmacology and Physiology, the Petitioner has 
not submitted the membership requirements. His documentation consists of a membership certificate for 
the former, and a "membership application/renewal" form for the latter. 
Membership in the Malaysian Natural Products Society is "open to persons interested in the scientific 
study of the natural products of the flora and fauna of Malaysia and the surrounding region." Although 
the record shows the Society has a higher class of membership, honorary membership, which is limited 
to persons who "have rendered valuable service to the Society; or . . . have made an outstanding 
3 
contribution to the study of natural products," the record does not show that the Petitioner is an honorary 
member. 
The record shows the British Pharmacological Society has several membership tiers. The "Honorary 
Fellow" level is reserved for individuals "distinguished for their sustained leadership role in science," but 
the Petitioner does not show that he is an honorary fellow. Other membership levels extend down to 
undergraduate students. Full membership "generally" requires a Ph.D., publication "in peer-reviewed 
journals," and similar academic activities. The Petitioner serves on the Society's Diploma Subcommittee, 
but he does not document his membership category. A letter from the Society refers to him simply as "a 
member." The Society's rules do not limit subcommittee membership to honorary fellows. Therefore, 
he has not shown that this membership meets the regulatory requirements. 
Finally, the Petitioner is a "regular member" of the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics (ASPET). Under ASPET's bylaws, regular membership is open to "[a]ny qualified 
investigator who has conducted and published a meritorious original investigation in pharmacology." 
"Meritorious" is not synonymous with "outstanding"; the former connotes a lower level of praise than 
the latter. Meritorious means "deserving of honor or esteem,"1 whereas outstanding means "marked by 
eminence and distinction."2 Also, there is no indication that recognized national or international experts 
judge the achievements of prospective members. 
The Petitioner has not established that any of his memberships require outstanding achievement as judged 
by recognized national or international experts. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner asserts that the citations to his published articles establish their significance. At the time 
of filing, the Petitioner's most-cited paper had accumulated 22 citations over the course of eight years. 
The Petitioner does not establish that only papers of major significance attain this level of citation. 
A Malaysian government publication lists two of the Petitioner's inventions as havinJ the "Potential to 
be Commercialised." One of these inventions, a powder containing the plant extract I is the 
subject of a patent application that the Petitioner filed in Malaysia in 2017. The record does not show 
that the products are actually on the market, or that the patent application has been approved. Even then, 
1 https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/meritorious (last visited May 20, 2020). 
2 https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/outstanding (last visited May 20, 2020). 
4 
not every patented and commercialized product has major significance. The approval of a patent 
recognizes originality rather than major significance. 
The Petitioner provided his "research expertise and consultancy services" to an herbal supplement 
company, leading to the release of~ I supplement. The Petitioner's research also appeared in a 
poster presentation at a scientific conference. The use of the Petitioner's research in these ways is not a 
self-evident demonstration of its major significance; not every commercial product, published article, and 
conference presentation has major significance in the field. The Petitioner indicates that 9,000 bottles of 
the supplement were sold nationwide. However, the Petitioner does not establish that this sales figure is 
significant; show how it compares with other supplement sales; or demonstrate that the supplement has 
had an appreciable impact on the health issues that the supplement is intended to address. 
The Petitioner's research collaborators indicate that the research results are still tentative; one individual 
states: "So far the animal studies look promising and if human studies confirm the observed trends then I ~an be given as a supplement to negate the negative effects of long term usage of anti-diabetic 
drugs." The record does not indicate that the Petitioner's research has already had an impact at a level 
commensurate with major significance. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The record establishes thatc::]University has a distinguished reputation, but not that the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading or critical role for the University. He has served on various committees, worked 
on strategic initiatives, and helped to organize conferences, but the Petitioner has not shown that these 
activities were leading or critical with respect to the University as a whole, or that the affected departments 
and other subdivisions of the University have distinguished reputations in their own right. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
When a petitioner submits the requisite initial evidence, we evaluate whether the petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim, that the 
petitioner is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that the petitioner's 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
In this instance, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, and 
therefore the record does not warrant a foll final merits determination. Nevertheless, we will briefly 
address the Director's findings in that regard because they factored into the denial of the petition. 
Apart from the shortcomings already discussed above, the Director found that, while the Petitioner met 
the wording of criteria (ii), (iv), and (vi), the evidence submitted under those criteria does not establish 
sustained national or international acclaim or place the Petitioner at the very top of his field. For instance, 
the Director acknowledged that participation in peer review amounts to participation as a judge of the 
work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but peer review is routine in academia, rather than a 
privilege reserved for acclaimed experts at the top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "failed to elaborate specific reasons as to why [ the 
Petitioner's] achievements were not indicative of someone who has risen to the top of the scientific field 
of Pharmacology." The burden of proof, however, is on the Petitioner. The Petitioner does not explain 
in any detail how the record, viewed as a whole, establishes eligibility; he merely asserts that this is the 
case. 
The Director explained why the Petitioner's evidence was deficient, stating, for example, that the 
Petitioner did not show that his award from the Nigeria High Commission relates to his work in the field, 
or that his citation history is indicative of major significance in the field. Rather than address these 
deficiencies, the Petitioner asserts that the Director evaluated the record in a "piecemeal" fashion, rather 
than as a whole as Kazarian requires. The Director's decision does generally discuss the submitted 
evidence in the context of the regulatory criteria, but the Petitioner has not shown that this same evidence, 
considered together, would have established eligibility. 
The Petitioner has established that he is an actively contributing member of the scientific community, 
both as a researcher and as a university faculty member. But success and productivity are not the same 
as acclaim, and the record does not establish that the Petitioner's work, and its impact on the field, indicate 
extraordinary ability that separates the Petitioner from the great majority of professionals in his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his work has resulted in the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For the reasons discussed above, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16715565 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a make-up artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinaiy ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. The Director 
affirmed his decision on motion, and we dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The Petitioner 
requests that we reopen the matter sua sponte and order the approval of her immigrant petition. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records reflect that the Petitioner in this matter is 
also the beneficiary of an approved Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. USCIS approved the 
Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, and she was 
granted conditional permanent residence on February 2, 2021, subsequent to filing the instant motion. 
Because the Petitioner is now a permanent resident, further pursuit of this matter would be moot 
Accordingly , we will dismiss the combined motions. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER : The motion to reconsider is dismissed . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20949716 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an art director, as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Beneficiary 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary has extensive experience in the commercial advertising, film, and television 
industries, where he has worked in visual effects, graphic design, art direction, video editing and other 
post-production roles. The Petitioner indicates its intent to employ the Beneficiary as an art director 
for several upcoming television projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to six criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others; and 
• (x) Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence that satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published materials about the Beneficiary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that it provided evidence in support of additional criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), in addition to the six criteria addressed in the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE) and final decision. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
the Director failed to consider evidence relating to three additional criteria. Further, the Director's 
determinations with respect to certain criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address the 
evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
2 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Although the Director did not address this criterion in the RFE or final decision, the record before the 
Director included evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of awards in his field. Specifically, the initial 
evidence included evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of a 20181 I award for 
a _____ award for the filml__Jissued by the Venezuelan! 
Commission for Education and Culture in 2017, and evidence related to the Beneficiary's 
receipt o __ Awards in the 1995-1996 edition of this annual Venezuelan advertising awards 
pro ram. In addition, the Petitioner's response to the RFE included additional information regardin 
th awards and indicated that the Beneficiary received additional awards for 
from the ________ International Film Festival in 2017 and a 2020 
award. The Petitioner submits additional evidence related to this criterion in support of the appeal. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate all evidence related to the Beneficiary's awards to determine 
if he had received an award that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) at the time the 
petition was filed in October 2020. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in same or an allied field of specialization for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a letter from the director of I I I I confirming the Beneficiary's participation as a member 
of the festival's jury in 2018. The Director's decision did not acknowledge the Petitioner's submission 
of this evidence and, as such, did not address this criterion in his decision. On appeal, the Petitioner 
emphasizes its previous submission of this evidence and provides supplemental evidence relating to 
the Beneficiary's services as a jury member. On remand, the Director should review the record, 
including the supplemental evidence submitted on appeal, to determine whether the Beneficiary met 
this criterion at the time of filing. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence included evidence that the 
Beneficiary's work, specifically on the feature film has been screened at independent film 
festivals and that such evidence meets the requirements of this criterion. As noted, the record included 
evidence indicating that the Beneficiary had received one or more film festival awards for his work on 
this film. The Petitioner also submits supplemental evidence in support of the appeal. As the matter 
is being remanded, the Director should review the Petitioner's claims and documentation to determine 
whether this criterion has been satisfied. 
With respect to the criteria addressed in the Director's decision, we observe that, while the Director 
listed some of the evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v) and 
(viii), he did not address this evidence with any specificity and as such, did not adequately explain 
why the evidence was insufficient to establish eligibility with respect to these criteria. For example, 
in addressing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to leading and critical roles for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Director stated: 
The evidence in the record did not establish that the beneficiary performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. The 
evidence in the record did not reflect the organization's or establishment's eminence 
distinction or excellence and thus it did not demonstrate the distinguished reputation of 
the organization or establishment for which the beneficiary performed in leading or 
critical roles. 
The Director did not make any reference to the evidence submitted to establish the reputation of the 
organizations that have employed the Beneficiary or why such evidence was determined to be 
deficient. As noted above, an officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). As the matter will be remanded for entry of a new decision, the Director 
should ensure that the decision, if adverse to the Petitioner, adequately explains why the submitted 
evidence is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. As the previously issued RFE did not address 
the Petitioner's evidence related to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (vii), the Director 
may issue a new RFE prior to issuing a final decision. Should the Director conclude upon review that 
the Beneficiary meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final merits 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary possesses the requisite sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20339501 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F .R. 204.5(h)(3) or showing that he 
received a major, internationally-recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a filmmaker who has written, directed, and edited short and feature films, and served 
as a video producer and editor for educational, corpor ional videos. The Petitioner has 
a bachelor of fine arts in film and video design from In titute of Design in India and 
received his master of fine arts in film directing from th _____ _,University i I 
in 2017. The record reflects that the Petitioner was in the United States in 0-1 nonimmigrant status 
at the time of filing. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the six claimed criteria, specifically 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). We agree that the screening of the Petitioner's films at 
1 We acknowledge that the 0-1 classification is intended for nonimmigrants with extraordinary ability. Nevertheless , the 
record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts 
in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding. Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have 
different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in 
the nonirnmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F .R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary 
ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 
independent film festivals satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence 
of the display of an individual's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
However, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner provided evidence 
establishing that he has served in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will discuss this criterion 
along with the remaining three criteria below. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner documented his receipt of the following awards for his short and feature-length films: 
• Winner, Screen at the 2020 Film Festival 
• Winner, Bronz Award for AwardD at the 2018 T""""""""' International Film Festival 
• Winner for 2020 Screenplay Awards. 
With respect to these three awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the awards 
the Petitioner received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. 
With respect to his Bronzel I Award, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his award certificate, a 
congratulatory letter from the directors of thel I International Film Festival, information 
regarding the history of the festival from its website, and a list of notable filmmakers who have received I Awards in the past. The record reflects that the festival has over 200 sub-categories, with 
approximately 15-20% of all entries receiving awards across many categories. Awards are based on 
scoring by a jury with a score cutoff for each level of award, which include the I I as well as 
platinum, gold, silver, and bronze awards. The description of the festival indicate that it is international 
in scope and that several well-known filmmakers received their very first awards at I I 
While the evidence reflects that thel I festival is well-established in the independent film 
industry, it bestows hundreds of awards annually. The record does not contain sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that every level of c=]Award in every category is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award. The issue here is not the national or international scope of the competition, or the 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in supp011 of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
reputation of the issuing body, but rather whether the Petitioner's specific award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. The record does not contain 
evidence of the nature or type of recognition the Petitioner received based on his award, such as media 
coverage of the 2018 festival in which he participated. Nor does it contain evidence of the nature and 
type of independent recognition thatOAward winners receive in general, outside of the festival itself. 
With respect to thel I Film Festival, the Petitioner provided the 2020 festival's list of 
winners in 90 categories from its website. This list includes the I Screenplay" award 
the Petitioner received for his filml I The only other evidence related to this festival is a brief 
history of the event from its website, indicating that it was created by two filmmakers in 2012 and intended 
to be a "world class independent film festival for independent filmmakers." Finally, with respect to his a award from I ts monthly screenplay awards, the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate and a congratulatory email addressed to him from the "Festival Team." Simply 
submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of a prize or award is not sufficient to meet this criterion 
unless the Petitioner submits evidence establishing that the prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. With respect to these two awards, the Petitioner 
did not sufficient documentary evidence, such as the selection criteria for award winners or evidence 
of the national or international recognition associated with his awards, to demonstrate that they meet 
all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that his awards from and thel I Film 
Festival appear on his Internet Movie Database (IMDb) page and asserts that this serves as evidence 
that they are nationally or internationally recognized awards. He submitted a copy of "Event 
Eligibility Criteria" published by IMDb which states that award events eligible for listing on the site 
should meet certain criteria. According to these criteria, eligible festival awards are those that have 
been established for more than five years, have an official website, have a well-established jury or 
method of selecting winners, and have received "regular international or national press coverage (wide 
or trade)." The information from IMDb states that events with "a nationally recognized broadcast 
awards ceremony or a festival award winner announced in recognized trade or other media 
publications would be eligible for listing." Notably, the information the Petitioner submitted from 
IMDb also states that "there are many Events listed on IMDb that do not meet [these] eligibility 
criteria." Based on this disclaimer, we cannot conclude that every award that IMDb accepts for 
submission to its site meets IMDb's own criteria, much less the specific requirements set forth at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
For example, the record establishes that I has been established for more than five 
years, has an official website, and has a well-established method for selecting winners, but the record 
does not include evidence that the festival receives "regular international or national press coverage" 
or that festival award winners are announced in recognized trade other media publications. As noted, 
the Petitioner submitted a copy of his Bronze award but did not provide any evidence related to 
the announcement of the award in support of his claim that it should be deemed a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. His reliance on information from IMDb 
regarding its criteria for listing awards, for the reasons discussed, is not persuasive. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that other film festivals have recognized his work by nominating 
his films or screenplays for awards, or by naming his films as festival "official selections." These festivals 
4 
include I Film AwardsJ International Film Festival 
Film Festival,! Film Festival, I Film Festival,  International Film 
Festival, among others. However, neither an award nomination nor recognition as an "official selection" 
satisfies the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires evidence of a 
petitioner's receipt of an award or prize. 
Finally, the Petitioner submits for the first time on appeal evidence indicating his receipt of three 
additional prizes or awards at the I Festival and I Festival, held in India in 2010. 
However, prior to the denial of the petition, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) allowing the 
Petitioner the opportunity to supplement the record with additional documentation related to this criterion. 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion. Although 
we acknowledge that the Petitioner is the recipient of awards in his field which recognize the quality 
of his work, the evidence he submitted does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
did not meet this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted published articles that are about him and 
relating to his work as a filmmaker. However, the Director determined that some of the articles did 
not include the author of the material as required by the plain language of the criterion. Moreover, the 
Director concluded that none of the articles were accompanied by evidence regarding the intended 
audience of the publication or circulation statistics to demonstrate that they were published in major 
trade or professional publications or other major media. On appeal, the Petitioner resubmits the five 
articles he provided previously, but does not address or specifically contest the Director's reasons for 
concluding that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. 
The submitted articles appeared in the online publications Medium (medium.com), Front Line Views 
(frontlineviews.com), International Film Review (internationalfilmreview.net), Tinsel Town News 
5 
Now (tinseltownnewsnow.net) and Entertainment LA ( entertainmentla.weebly.com). Only two of the 
articles (from Medium and Front Line Views) identify the name of the author. Articles that do not 
identify an author do not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. 
Further, the record supports the Director's determination that none of the articles were accompanied 
by evidence of their publication in major trade or professional publications or other major media. We 
note that evidence of published material in major media publications should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics. 3 In order to establish 
that a publication is a professional or trade publication in a given field, the record should include 
evidence regarding the intended audience of the publication. Here, the Petitioner did not submit 
supporting evidence regarding the circulation or intended audience of the online publications in which 
the articles appeared. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two additional articles, but, as with the previously submitted 
evidence, these articles are not accompanied by evidence that the published materials meet all elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). One of the articles appeared in the "Student Spotlight" 
section of a newsletter published b I University in March 2017, and the other appeared 
on the website Gaysi Family (gaysifamily.com) in 2016. While both articles are about the Petitioner 
and relating to his work in the field, neither is accompanied by evidence to demonstrate that the articles 
were published by major trade or professional publications or other major media. 
We have reviewed all the evidence of published materials about the Petitioner and conclude that the 
record does not demonstrate that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 4 The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from 
colleagues and former professors who work in the film industry and maintains that the statements from 
these experts are sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion, particularly, when considered with 
evidence of the display of his work at film festivals, his awards and nominations, and his media 
coverage. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although he provided evidence reflecting the originality 
of his work through recommendation letters praising him for his films and for his talents as a writer, 
editor and director, the authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of 
major significance. 5 In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's achievements but do not 
demonstrate that his contributions to filmmaking have made the required impact in the field. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
4 Id. 
5 Although we do not address every letter individually, we have reviewed and considered each one in evaluating whether 
the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. 
6 
For example, a letter from producer/director I states that the Petitioner is "doubtlessly one 
of the most accomplished directors, writers and editors among his fellow filmmakers in the field" and 
indicates that the Petitioner "has more drive, tenacity and skill than all but a few of the scores of 
students in my numerous classes." I I further describes the Petitioner as "intelligent, 
inquisitive, clever and wise," and states that "his skills and work ethic rival those of many 
professionals" that he has encountered during his career. While the letter offers praise for the 
Petitioner's abilities as a filmmakerJ ldoes not attribute to the Petitioner a specific original 
contribution that has impacted or influenced the field of filmmaking. 
A letter from filmmaker! I similarly praises the Petitioner's talents and highlights his 
work as the director, writer and editor for the short fil notin that he successfully handled a 
sensitive subject in a way that was impactful with audiences. emphasizes thatl I 
achieved a high standing among peers, audiences and critics, as evidenced by its nominations for 
several film festival awards. While the selection of land other films for viewing at film 
festivals is evidence that the Petitioner has made contributions to his field, the Petitioner must also 
demonstrate that such contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the level of 
contributions of major significance, the Petitioner's work can be expected to have an influence on 
similar artists and similar works of art. Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134 (upholding a finding 
that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the 
field as a whole). Although !recognizes the Petitioner's abilities and asserts that the 
recognition tha received from film festivals is a significant accomplishment, he does not 
provide the nexus between the Petitioner's talents and the manner in which he has made original 
contributions of major significance in his field. 
The remaining letters pertaining to the Petitioner's work recite his professional achievements and 
discuss his career as a filmmaker. However, the authors do not provide a description of how the 
Petitioner's films, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance with the 
regulation. The letters, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues and former teachers, primarily 
contain broad attestations of the Petitioner's talents and the significance of his work without providing 
specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. For 
example! I praises the Petitioner's "intelligence, dedication and insight," indicates that 
he has a "unique viewpoint ... from growing up in India" and indicates that he is "very successful." 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.6 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments and 
their influence on the field, the letters submitted do not establish that the Petitioner's work in 
filmmaking has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 7 
The opinions of experts in the field are not without weight and have been considered above. USCIS 
may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 Although we discuss a sampling of the letters submitted, we have carefully reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
of Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately 
responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit 
sought. Id. 
Further, the Petitioner's appeal brief does not address this criterion or explain how his work as a 
filmmaker has significantly impacted the field. While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work has 
been displayed at independent film festivals and received some awards, the record does not contain 
evidence to establish such festivals specifically recognize only those films that have influenced the 
field as opposed to recognizing independent films for their artistic merit. Here, while the Petitioner 
has provided evidence that his work has garnered some recognition within the field, he has not 
demonstrated that his films have influenced others in the field or that he has otherwise made 
contributions that are of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy three elements: that his role was (1) leading or critical; 
(2) that such role was for an organization or establishment; and (3) that the organization or establishment 
has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. For a critical role, the evidence 
should establish that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the 
organization or establishment. 8 
The Petitioner asserted that that he meets this criterion because he "performed the leading and critical 
role of writer and editor in the creation of several acclaimed film productions," including the short 
films and a documenta that he wrote directed and edited for 
researchers a University an in India. The 
Petitioner indicated that the reference letters discussed above, the published materials, and the 
inclusion of his films in independent film festivals demonstrate that he satisfies all requirements set 
forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director determined, without discussing the submitted 
evidence, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. We disagree and will withdraw the Director's 
determination. 
While the record demonstrates that the Petitioner held a leading or critical role in the creation of the 
short films that he wrote, directed, and edited, the regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or 
critical "for organizations or establishments," and the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his 
independent films qualify as organizations or establishments. Therefore, even if we determined that he 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. ( citing to Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence"). 
8 
held a leading or critical role for a distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to 
meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Further, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner's films have received recognition based on their 
inclusion in independent film festivals but does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that any of 
his individual film productions has achieved a "distinguished reputation" within the film industry. 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that his films have received awards and nominations and have been 
mentioned in published articles, as discussed above, the record does not establish, for example, that his 
films have received or been nominated for nationally recognized awards or has been featured in major 
trade or professional publications or other major media. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 09, 2023 In Re: 27032687 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant accountant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established she received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Director found the Petitioner met two of the ten evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
related to a leading or critical role performed for distinguished organizations and that of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), related to high salary or other significantly high remuneration. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts she meets two additional evidentiary criteria, that of (iv), related to judging others' 
work and (v), related to original contributions of major significance.1 For the reasons described below, 
we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has established eligibility under (viii) and (ix). 
We instead conclude that she has established eligibility under only one criterion, that of (iv). While 
we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 2 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that she had not established eligibility under criterion 
(i), related to lesser-known prizes or awards, and (ii), related to membership in an association requiring outstanding 
achievements. Additionally, the Petitioner did not claim eligibility under criteria (iii), (vi), (vii), or (x) before the Director 
or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides no evidence or arguments addressing these six criteria on appeal, we consider 
these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing 
party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att •,.Gen., 
401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); 
Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will not be required 
to specifically address each claim a petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to address every piece of evidence the 
petitioner presents. Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 
(1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. U.S. INS, 984 
F.2d 105, 107 (4th Cir. 1993). 
2 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that they have not only been invited to judge 
the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the 
same of allied field of specialization.3 The Petitioner asserts that her employment as an accountant 
and in various accountant related positions involved duties to review others' work. She provided 
examples of how she reviewed a subordinate's draft of a request for proposal and another coworker's 
draft of a standard operating procedure. On appeal, she provides a letter and a price quote document 
for the sale of seeds to the government of Fiji. The Petitioner asserts that she judged and reviewed 
these materials on behalf of others and at their request, which establishes she meets this criterion. 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, explaining: 
[T]he phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, either on a 
panel or individually. . . . Regardless of broad dictionary definitions of the words 
"judge" and "work," the final determination of whether evidence meets the plain 
language requirements of a regulation lies with USCIS. . . . [E]vidence must 
demonstrate that the beneficiary is "recognized in the field of expertise," so the 
regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating employees 
or products. Incidental evaluation responsibilities inherent to your employment or 
product validation position do not establish that you served in an official capacity, 
either individually or on a panel, as "a judge" of the work of others .... 
The Director points out relevant considerations concerning the quality of the Petitioner's evidence. 
While we agree with the qualitative analysis, we conclude it more appropriately belongs in a final 
merits determination. For instance, the plain language of the criterion does not mention that the 
judging must be in an "official capacity," nor does the criterion require the evidence to demonstrate 
"recognition in the field of expertise." While this analysis is certainly relevant to our overall 
determination of eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification, it appears that in this particular 
instance, such qualitative analysis belongs in a final merits determination. The Petitioner has 
established that she judged the work of others in her field, thereby satisfying the plain language of the 
criterion. We withdraw the Director's finding that she did not meet this criterion and instead conclude 
she has met this criterion. 
However, were we to engage in a final merits determination, the Petitioner's evidence of her 
participation as a judge would not support a finding of sustained national or international acclaim or 
that she is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field for reasons similar 
to those the Director articulated. The Director further noted the intent of Congress in implementing 
the regulations was to set a very high standard for the extraordinary ability classification, as reflected 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
by the requirement to present more extensive documentation than is required for lesser classifications. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). A review of coworkers' drafts and other similar 
instances of"judging" would not serve as strong or quality evidence of eligibility for the extraordinary 
ability classification. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
they have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance.4 
The Petitioner primarily relies upon numerous support letters from former employers and coworkers 
to establish eligibility under this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director "DID NOT 
RECOGNIZE EVEN ONE SINGLE LETTER/TESTIMONY" (all capital letters in original). 
However, the Director's decision includes quoted content from eight different letters. As such, we do 
not find support for the Petitioner's assertion. The Director concluded: 
This criterion has not been met because the evidence submitted does not show that your 
contributions are considered to be of major significance in the field of endeavor. To 
successfully meet this criterion, you must establish that your original contribution[s] 
have impacted or influenced their entire field. The letters ... do not describe an impact 
that is sufficiently widespread. The term "original" and the phrase "major significance" 
are not superfluous and therefore have some meaning (internal citations omitted). 
Regardless of the field, the phrase "contributions of major significant in the field" 
requires substantial influence beyond one's employer, clients, or customers.... 
We reviewed the Petitioner's evidence and agree with the Director's determination quoted above. The 
letters support a finding that the Petitioner performed well at her jobs and offered her employers time 
and cost saving methods and tools. The letters' authors describe her work and the impact her work 
had on their business, including their sister and subsidiary businesses in other parts of the world. 
However, for the reasons the Director explained, this is not necessarily sufficient to establish eligibility 
under this criterion. 
In thel !letter, the author states they do not personally know the Petitioner but heard 
about her "bottom up" accounting methods and detailed cost analysis reports from their professional 
contacts. The author explained that they had never heard of the Petitioner's method before but when 
implemented, they were able to prepare the budget in less time and offer their board of directors a 
detailed report. Although the author describes a positive experience using methods and reports they 
attribute to the Petitioner's creation, this is insufficient to establish how the Petitioner's methods are 
"original" or of "major significance in the field." While a person may not have heard of a method 
before, this does not necessarily establish its originality. Likewise, simply because a method may be 
4 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
4 
new to a particular business or customized for a particular business, does not establish the method's 
originality. Furthermore, implementation of the method across one or even several businesses does 
not support a finding that such methods constitute "contributions of major significance in the field." 
Even if the Petitioner developed or created the tools and methods! land the Petitioner's 
employers used, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the contributions' impact or influence in the overall 
field.5 Further, even if the methods delivered cost/time savings, more detailed reports, and other 
benefits to the business, the content of the letters do not contain sufficient details supporting a finding 
of '"major significance. "6 
We conclude, the support letter authors do not sufficiently identify original contributions, nor do they 
provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly significant 
in the field. Because the Petitioner has not established that her personal and professional achievements 
are original contributions which have been of major significance to the overall field of accounting, we 
conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
A petitioner must establish that they have performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment.7 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities.8 For a "distinguished" reputation, we refer to the dictionary definition of "distinguished," 
meaning "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person."9 
The Director found the Petitioner met this criterion but provided no analysis to support this 
determination. We reviewed the Petitioner's employment history and experience, the letters from 
employers and coworkers, as well as the articles and press releases about the Petitioner's various 
employers. While we acknowledge this evidence, we conclude it does not establish eligibility under 
this criterion. 
To illustrate, the evidence ofl !distinguished reputation includes press releases about their 
partnerships, mergers, and acquisitions, as well as an organizational chart, and a Wikipedia printout 
about the company. It is not apparent how their organizational structure or press releases and articles 
about their business operations establishes I I reputation. Wikipedia is an online 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). ~---~ 
6 Additionally, thel !letter does not state for whom or where the author works, nor does the letter contain 
letterhead, a business email address, or website. As such, we question the legitimacy of the author's ability to comment 
on the impact of the Petitioner's methods on their business or the Petitioner's originality. Therefore, we place little 
probative value in this letter. 
7 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" can be found online at https://www.merriam­
webster.com/d ictionary/d isti ngu ished. 
5 
encyclopedia edited and maintained by any member(s) of the public. As such, we do not consider 
Wikipedia to be a reliable information source. In addition, the printout provides background 
information about I I but this information does not necessarily establish I I 
reputation. 
The Petitioner provided articles describing the I I another of the Petitioner's former 
employers, as a fast-growing United Kingdom-based cycling business that received! !funds 
to expand its o,erations. However, the Petitioner has not explained how this information establishes 
thel j has a distinguished reputation. Furthermore, the Petitioner provided a general job 
description of her position as "Finance Manager -International," but this job description does not 
supply sufficient information with which to determine whether the Petitioner performed in a leading 
or critical role for the I I 
The Petitioner provided several letters from and articles about thel IThe articles about 
the ,_______ _,size and new projects suggest that it may have a distinguished reputation; 
however, there is little evidence to establish how the Petitioner performed a leading or critical role 
within the organization. The support letters favorably discuss the Petitioner's work and the company's 
appreciation of her, but they do not discuss how she performed as a leader within the organization, nor 
do they offer sufficiently detailed explanations of how she contributed in away that was of significant 
importance to the outcome of the establishment's activities. 
The letter from provides more detailed information about the Petitioner's role at the 
than the other letters; however, thel !letter is undated, not on letterhead, 
~a-nd_i_n_cl-ud_e_s_a~personal Gmail address, rather than abusiness address. AlthoughI !describes 
herself as the former General Manager of Finance for the I I we question the credibility 
of this letter given its personal, rather than professional, appearance. Even if we accepted this letter 
as credible and probative, it would still not contain a sufficient explanation of how the Petitioner's role 
within thel Ior her specific division, would be considered "leading" or "critical." 
For the foregoing reasons, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner met this criterion and 
instead conclude the evidence does not establish her eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.10 The Director found the Petitioner 
met this criterion but provided no analysis to support this determination. 
The Petitioner provided employment contracts and letters stating the salary various prior employers 
offered her, as well as a smattering of pay stubs from several of those positions; however, these 
documents do not show the actual salary the Petitioner earned. 11 For instance, the paystubs establish 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
11 The evidence related to aprospective employment position in the United States and asalary proposed, but not yet earned, 
6 
the compensation paid to the Petitioner over the particular pay periods covered but do not clearly show 
the Petitioner's total annual salary. Likewise, the letters from employers proposing a salary or stating 
the Petitioner earned a particular salary does not sufficiently establish the actual salary the Petitioner 
earned. 
The Petitioner provided printouts of salary data reports organized by position; however, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently established that these are position-appropriate compensation surveys. To illustrate, 
the Petitioner provided United Kingdom salary averages and ranges for "finance jobs." It is unclear 
what positions such a broad category includes, but we assume it could range from simple bookkeeping 
positions to chief financial officer positions. Therefore, it is not possible to ascertain how the 
Petitioner's specific position compensation compares to others in those same positions in that 
geographical area. Similarly, the Glassdoor salary surveys pertain to accountants with one to three 
years of experience, whereas the Petitioner asserted she has 10 to 14 years of experience in her field. 
As such, the Glassdoor printouts of entry-level positions are not appropriate comparisons to the 
Petitioner's positions. 
Both precedent decisions and case law support a pos1t1on-appropriate application of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
Additionally, some of the salary data printouts cut off the date in which they were conducted while 
others state they are from 2022. However, the Petitioner's employment in such positions may have 
occurred years prior, such that 2022 salary data would not provide an accurate picture of the average 
salaries paid when the Petitioner held the relevant position. Finally, the employer letters and contracts 
offer insufficient information about the organizational justifications to pay above the compensation 
data provided. 
Accordingly, we conclude the Petitioner did not establish she commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in the same position. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding that she met this criterion 
and instead conclude the evidence does not sufficiently establish eligibility under this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects the Petitioner may have applied for 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS may approve an 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
does not establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time the Petitioner filed her petition. USCIS regulations 
affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b){l). A visa petition may not be approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes 
eligible under a new set of facts. See Matter of Michelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). As 
such, we have considered the salary the prospective employer proposes to offer the Petitioner, but conclude it is insufficient 
to establish eligibility under this criterion, particularly as the regulatory criterion is written in past tense, e.g. "commanded." 
7 
petition on her behalf, an approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition 
adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Form 1-140 immigrant 
petitions are sometimes denied even after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q 
Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 
F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 
41. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for a "rising star" or other individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-M-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 11, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a wrestler, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 {D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 {AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a wrestler who has competed at the 2016 I I and in local and 
international tournaments. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
two of the initial evidentiary criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and memberships under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The record reflects that the Petitioner medaled at international tournaments, 
such as thel !Championships. In addition, the Petitioner was a member of the 20161 I I lteam. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards and 
memberships criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that "the published material submitted in the original filing includes 
publications featured in the BBC News,I I and Sports & Fitness, which are each read by 
2 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
an international audience numbering in the tens of thousands." Moreover, he argues that "the articles 
are centered around the wrestling achievements of [him] and his upcoming international competitions 
as work in his field of expertise." In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
including the title, date, and author of the material. 1 
As it relates to BBC News and Sports & Fitness, the Petitioner did not include the authors of the 
material. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, as it relates to BBC News, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
bbc.com reflecting the listing of the results for the 2016 I !wrestling matches. Similarly, 
d. S rts & Fitness, the Petitioner submitted an excerpt ofbriefl I athletes' profiles for 
. Likewise, concerning I ~e Petitioner presented screenshots from 
pertaining to a preview of the I where the Petitioner is mentioned among 
all of the other wrestling competitor~er, the documentation is not about him but rather an 
overview of upcoming and completedL__Jwrestling matches andl I athletes. Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 2 
In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any supporting documentation to corroborate his assertions 
that the publications "are read each by an international audience numbering in the tens of thousands."3 
Moreover, while we recognize the BBC News and its website as major media, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that a readership of "tens of thousands" is tantamount to a major medium. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
~titioner argues that his recommendation letters show his role with the.__ ________ _, 
L___J As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 5 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
3 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
According tol ~wrestling and life coach, the Petitioner "continued to prove his leading 
and critical role with I _ through successive wins at the I I Championshi]s and 
I I Games in 2014 and 2015 to qualify for the 2016 I _" and 
"[t]his impressive representation of his country further helps to demonstrate his critical role as an 
award winning wrestler with thel I and the contributions he has made in elevating the 
status and international rankings of the country's team." Furthermore wrestling 
coach, indicated that the Petitioner "was a critical member ofl ldue to his winning record and 
encouraging sportsmanlike attitude that he displayed towards his teammates." 
Althou~ I rJ.ndl I claimed that the Petitioner performed in a leading and critical 
role forl__J they did not provide specific information. 6 Instead, they made general statements 
relating to his role and contributions to the team without demonstrating how his role was either leading 
or critical. For instance.I ldid not explain how the Petitioner's achievements of winning 
wrestling tournaments and qualifying for the I I was leading or critical toe=] overall. 
Moreover,! I did not further elaborate on how the Petitioner's wins elevated the status and 
rankings otl I Likewise.I I did not detail how the Petitioner's winning record and 
sportsmanlike impacted or contributed to the team. Again, the letters do not contain sufficient 
information to establish the significance of the Petitioner's role withLJ For example, the letters do 
not show how the Petitioner's role as a wrestler differentiated from the others wrestlers or positions 
witLJor how he was essential in contributing to the overall successes ofD 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate thatD enjoys a distinguished reputation consistent 
with th is leg u latlry criterion. 7 The Petitioner does nor I mentioln, nor does the record contain' evi de nee 
reflecting reputation. As discussed above, referenced Os "international 
rankings of the country's team" but did not indicate international ranking. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not provide, for example, documentation showing the general field's view oO how 
its reputation compares to other national wrestling teams, ore=] successes in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). See also Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Aiyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof). 
7 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
4 
Matter of H-M-E-A-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofH-M-E-A-, ID# 3385357 (AAO June 11, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8187359 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 11, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a theater company, seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that the Beneficiary met only one of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal, concluding that although it established that the Beneficiary met three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, it had not established the Beneficiary's eligibility in the final merits analysis. We dismissed 
a subsequent motion to reconsider as untimely filed. The matter is now before us on a second motion 
to reconsider. Upon review we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 1 
II. ANALYSIS 
Our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous motion to reconsider was based on the fact that it was filed 
63 days after the service of our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, which did not comply with 
the regulatory requirement that a motion be filed within 33 calendar days of the date our unfavorable 
1 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding ." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C) . A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
decision was mailed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i); 103.8(b). The Petitioner was specifically advised 
of the 33-day filing period for motions on the cover page of our decision dismissing the Petitioner's 
appeal. 
In its current motion to reconsider the Petitioner submits copies of the brief and supporting documents 
that were late filed with its previous motion to reconsider and therefore not considered in our decision 
dismissing the motion. The Petitioner asserts that these materials were not late filed in its previous 
motion because they were received by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on 
Monday, April 29, 2019, which was the last day of the filing period for our dismissal decision dated 
March 26, 2019. 2 While the Petitioner is correct that its Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
was originally received by USCIS on April 29, 2019, it was rejected and returned to the Petitioner 
along with the brief and all supporting materials because the check the Petitioner submitted with the 
Form I-290B was dated April 26, 2018. A rejected benefit request does not retain a filing date. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(iii). By the time the Petitioner resubmitted a check and the Form I-290B with 
supporting documentation, which were received by USCIS and properly filed on May 28, 2019, the 
33-day filing period had expired. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our decision dismissing the 
previous motion on the ground that it was late filed was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Accordingly, the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 The last day of the filing period fell on Sunday, April 28, 2019, therefore, the period to file a motion ran until the end of 
Monday, April 29, 2019. 8 C.F.R. § 1.2. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 11, 2024 InRe: 31125314 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a lead data analyst, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, international award or by satisfying at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). However, in the request for evidence (RFE) and the denial decision, 
the Director also addressed eligibility criteria pertinent to a separate classification. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate their one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide documentation that they meet at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to their occupation. 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements , we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
The Petitioner is a lead data analyst. The record reflects that she intends to pursue work in the same 
field in the United States. The Petitioner indicated on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Workers, that she requested classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, as contemplated 
by section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not indicate on the Form 1-140 that she was 
applying for a national interest waiver as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree or 
an individual of exceptional ability. See section 203(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(2)(B)(i). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (viii), summarized below: 
• Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• Membership in associations in the field; and 
• Performance in leading or critical roles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner "does not meet at least three ofthe ten criteria." However, 
although the RFE and the denial decision acknowledged that the Petitioner requested classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability, they also requested documentation and/or discussed factors 
pertinent to the framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions in the precedent decision 
Matter of Dhanasar , 26 l&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016), a classification other than that which the 
Petitioner requested . Moreover, although the denial decision indicated that "USCIS will analyze the 
evidence that was submitted under each criterion," the analysis does not reflect the Director's 
consideration of any of the Petitioner's arguments and evidence with respect to the three claimed 
criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not carefully review and consider the evidence 
submitted and arguments made in support of the petition and did not "adequately state an applicable 
basis for denial of the previously submitted petition." The Petitioner maintains on appeal that she is 
eligible for the requested classification and asserts that the petition "included numerous letters of 
2 
support .... giving her application 'comparable evidence' to establish her eligibility for classification 
under INA § 203(b )(1 )(A)." 
Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case because the 
Director's decision is insufficient for review. As stated, the analysis does not reflect the Director's 
consideration of any of the Petitioner's claims and evidence with respect to the three claimed criteria. 
An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
does not address the evidence submitted with the petition or in response to the RFE with respect to the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (viii), we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. The Director should also review the Petitioner's 
appellate brief: which further discusses the previously submitted evidence provided in support of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and argues comparable evidence. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
the new decision should evaluate, based on the totality of the evidence in the record, whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 11, 2024 In Re: 31160572 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television producer, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 1 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) -(v) and (vii). The Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (viii), which relate to authorship of scholarly articles and performance 
in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments, respectively. However, 
because the Petitioner has not established that meets five of the seven evidentiary criteria claimed on 
appeal, she would not establish that she met three out of ten criteria even if we considered her claims 
regarding the two remaining criteria. As such, we need not determine whether she meets the 
requirements of these two criteria, nor do we need to provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
1 In analyzing the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii) the Director incorrectly detennined that various 
website printouts that the Petitioner provided as supporting evidence required certified English translations which the 
Petitioner did not provide. However, because the Director fully discussed the contents of the respective documents and 
explained how they are deficient aside from the translation issue, the Director's errors did not materially alter the outcome 
of denial and need not be further addressed . 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an individual of extraordinary ability based on her skills and experience as 
a producer. She intends to use her skills and experience to advance her production company -I I I I-and states that her goal is "to develop and support projects and programs that contribute 
to the spread of modem communication models." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence to show that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore provide evidence showing that she satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Petitioner claims that she meets the 
2 
elements of seven of these criteria, which are summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions; and 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that she satisfied all seven criteria.2 
In the discussion below, we will address five of the claimed criteria, starting with the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in professional associations. To meet this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that she is a member in an association in her field, that the 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members, and that this requirement is judged by 
national or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that she satisfies this criterion based on her membership in the Union of 
Journalists ofthe Republic ofKazakhstan. Although the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's union 
membership card, the Director observed that this document's issue date included only the year ofissue 
-2021. The Director also discussed the Petitioner's submission of printed material from the union's 
website, which shows that in addition to certain biographical documentation, the prospective member 
is required to submit three to five publications or recordings of radio or television programs and either 
two recommendation letters from existing union members or one letter from the editor-in-chief of the 
publication where the prospective member works. The Director found that the union's membership 
criteria does not include a requirement that its members demonstrate outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the relevant field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that implicit in the union's requirement of publications and 
professional recommendations is the further requirement that the union member "should possess prior 
experience in journalism and the production ofradio and TV programs" and that the member's work 
"must garner high regard from at least two current members of the union." However, because the 
Petitioner's membership card shows that she became a member of the listed union in 2021, she was 
not yet a member in 2020 when this petition was filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nor has the 
Petitioner established that the union's requirement of prior experience and "high regard" from existing 
union members is synonymous with requiring "outstanding achievements ... as judged by recognized 
national or international experts" in the field ofjournalism. As such, the Petitioner has not established 
that membership in the Union of Journalists of the Republic of Kazakhstan meets the requirements of 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 At the time of the petition filing, the Petitioner claimed to meet the elements of the five criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) -(vi) and (viii) but in her response to the second of two requests for evidence the Petitioner claimed two 
additional criteria -those listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (vii) -for a total of seven criteria. 
3 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence that material 
about a petitioner and their work in the field of endeavor has been published in a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
In the denial, the Director discusses the Petitioner's published interview with an online newspaper -
Kaz Unite. The Director points out the newspaper article's absence of an identified author as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and notes that the article's publication date -I I2022 -indicates 
that it was published after this petition's filing in 2020. The Director further pointed to the 
publication's lack of circulation and comparative data in the record, thereby leading the Director to 
conclude that KazUnite has not been established as a major trade publication in the Petitioner's field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that KazUnite is published in the United States "and broadcasts" 
in multiple countries in Europe. She asserts that because of the "significant number" of Kazakh 
nationals residing outside of Kazakhstan, the noted publication "enjoys substantial popularity within 
the Kazakh community" and has "extensive reach and influence" due to its Tnstagram following of 
7,292. (Emphasis in original). However, the Petitioner does not adequately address the evidentiary 
deficiency that the Director noted -namely, that the article was not published as of the date this 
petition was filed and that the record lacks circulation and comparative data. While the Petitioner 
recognizes that the article in question did not exist at the time of filing, she claims that it serves as 
"supplementary evidence" of her compliance with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). It is 
unclear how such evidence establishes the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion at the time of 
filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nor do the Petitioner's ambiguous parameters, such as "substantial 
popularity" and "extensive reach and influence," adequately address the record's lack of circulation 
and comparative data to support the claim that Kaz Unite qualifies as a major trade publication. 
The Petitioner also claims that she qualifies for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which 
requires evidence of a petitioner's participation as a judge assessing the work of others in the same or 
allied field of specialization. The phrase "as a judge" in the regulations implies a formal designation 
in a judging capacity, either on a panel or individually; the regulation also requires evidence showing 
that the Petitioner actually participated in judging the work of others "in the same or allied field of 
specialization." Id. 
As evidence to claim that the Petitioner met the provisions of this criterion, she provided a letter and 
corresponding event information showing that she had been approved as a member of a judging panel 
for a competition that was due to take place in June, July, and August 2022. 
In the denial, the Director once again pointed out that the submitted documents did not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing because they discussed the Petitioner's participation in an 
event that took place several years after the petition was filed. On appeal, the Petitioner explains that 
her participation as a jury member, despite the date of the event, is relevant because it underscores her 
"contributions and accomplishments in television program production." We note that the Petitioner's 
claims are not relevant here, where the Petitioner's "participation, either individually or on a panel, as 
a judge" is the critical component of the criterion in question, which this evidence would not meet at 
the time of filing. Id. Likewise, while the Petitioner highlights evidence demonstrating that she 
"taught and evaluated coursework" and worked with student internships, it too does not demonstrate 
4 
that she met the regulatory criteria, as these activities would not meet the defined judging criteria. For 
the reasons discussed herein, the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's adverse finding regarding 
this criterion. 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence of the 
Petitioner's original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. Regarding this criterion, not only 
must the Petitioner establish that she made original contributions, but also that the contributions have 
been of major significance in her field. The Director determined that while the Petitioner made 
original contributions, she did not clarify how her contributions were of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not adequately consider previously submitted 
documents that were part of her response to the first of two requests for evidence (RFE). Namely, the 
Petitioner discusses a recommendation letter from I I head of broadcasting and 
public relations at a production studio, where the Petitioner's "active engagement" is claimed to have 
resulted in the production of "a multitude of television projects." While the recommendation letter 
praises the Petitioner's work and contributions to the organization, it does not list the Petitioner's 
specific contributions or establish that her contributions were of major significance to the field. The 
Petitioner also asks for further consideration of a document issued by the Ministry of Information and 
Public Development of Kazakhstan, which contains a list of approved television and radio channels. 
She asserts that her "active engagement" resulted in government endorsement of various television 
projects and channels. The government issued document does not, however, recognize the Petitioner's 
specific work and contributions, nor does it indicate that the contributions resulted in government 
approval of the various listed channels. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not properly assess exhibits 6 and 9 in her first RFE 
response, claiming that the former exhibit includes evidence that a project she worked on was used as 
instructional material by the _______ However, a review of the single-page printout 
from the university's website lists the video tutorials in a foreign language. Because the Petitioner did 
not submit a properly certified English language translation ofthe foreign language content within this 
document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the foreign language material supports the 
Petitioner's claims. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
Further, the Petitioner argues that the previously submitted recommendation letters, such as the one in 
exhibit 9, "explicitly delineated the distinct accomplishments and outcomes resulting from the 
[Petitioner]'s role as a producer of diverse media content." However, as indicated in the denial, the 
issue of whether the Petitioner made original contributions to organizations where she worked is not 
in contention. Rather, the Director recognized that the Petitioner made original contributions that were 
valued at the organizations where she worked but noted that originality is only one of the elements 
comprising this criterion. As stated above, the Petitioner must also demonstrate that her contributions 
were of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not explained either with her initial filing, 
or on appeal how her contributions were of major significance in her field. For the reasons discussed 
above, the Petitioner has not established that she has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Lastly, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner's work in the field has been displayed at artistic exhibitions. We note that the Petitioner did 
not include this criterion as part of her initial claim and only listed it in response to the first RFE. 
5 
Aside from listing the criterion, however, the Petitioner did not further discuss it, explain how she 
satisfied the criterion's key elements, or mention this criterion in response to the second RFE. 3 While 
the Petitioner now claims that she meets this criterion, she has only done so for the first time on appeal. 
Therefore, while we acknowledge the Petitioner's discussion on appeal regarding the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), the Petitioner neglected to address this criterion when given the 
opportunity to do so in response to the second RFE. Where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 
(BIA 1988); see also Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Ifthe Petitioner had wanted 
consideration of her qualifications under the criterion in question, she should have laid out her claim 
in response to the second RFE, where the issue was initially raised. Id. Because the Petitioner 
effectively raises claims pertaining to this criterion for the first time on appeal, we need not and do not 
consider the sufficiency of her assertions. 
B. Reserved Issues 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
and (viii), which relate to authorship of scholarly articles and performance in a leading or critical role 
for distinguished organizations or establishments, respectively. However, given the deficiencies 
described above, we need not determine whether the Petitioner meets the requirements ofthese criteria, 
and we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that she met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 Because the Petitioner had not included the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) as part of her original claim, the 
Director did not discuss it in the first RFE., Rather, the Director discussed it in a second RFE, after reviewing the 
Petitioner's initial RFE response, where this criterion was mentioned for the first time. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 12, 2024 In Re: 31109123 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a web developer and digital marketing entrepreneur, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, frrst-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate her required intent to continue working in the United States in her field. 
The Director also found that she met two of ten of the requested category's initial evidentiary criteria 
-one less than required for a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence of her intent to continue 
working in the United States in her field. She also claims that she met the requisite third evidentiary 
requirement by submitting evidence that she: received nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in her field; and performed in a leading or critical role for organizations with 
distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has established her intent to continue working in her field in the United 
States and her leading role in a company with a distinguished reputation. We will therefore withdraw 
the Director' s decision and remand the matter for a final merits determination and entry of a new 
decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary criteria above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir.2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of 
extraordinary ability); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Russian 
national and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
computer engineering technology and a master's degree in computational design in her home country. 
In 2007, she founded a digital marketing and information technology (IT) firm in Russia. She has also 
lectured on digital marketing at a Russian university. 
The Petitioner states that, in the United States, she intends to establish a digital marketing and IT firm 
modeled on her Russian business. For that purpose, she has established a U.S. limited liability 
company (LLC). She says that she has already provided web development and digital marketing 
services to several U.S. businesses. 
A. Intent to Continue Working in the Field 
A successful petitioner in this immigrant visa category must "seek[] to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability." Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. A petition 
need not contain a job offer. But a filing must contain "clear evidence" of a petitioner's intent to 
continue working in their field, such as: "letter(s) from prospective employer(s), evidence of pre­
arranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the [petitioner] detailing plans on how 
[they] intend[] to continue [their] work in the United States." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The Petitioner's initial filing lacked sufficient evidence that she would continue to work in the IT 
entrepreneurial field in the United States. In response to the Director's request for additional evidence, 
she submitted a signed statement and copies of her U.S. LLC's articles of organization, website, and 
agreements with two U.S. businesses to provide web development and digital marketing services. 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
The Director's decision states: "[I]t has not been established that the [Petitioner] is coming to the 
United States to work as a CEO of [a] Digital Marketing Agency." But the record does not support 
that finding. The Petitioner stated: "I intend to continue my activities in the United States in my 
chosen field of web development and digital marketing entrepreneurship." The agreements with the 
U.S. businesses identify her as the LLC's "Chief Executive Officer." Although the Petitioner's initial 
filing omitted her statement, the LLC's agreements and articles of organization predate the petition's 
filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )( 1) (requiring a petitioner to demonstrate eligibility "at the time offiling 
the benefit request"). The record lacks any contrary evidence. Thus, consistent with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5), the Petitioner has provided "clear evidence" of her intent to continue working in the 
United States in the IT entrepreneurial field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary 
finding. 
The Petitioner must still meet the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested immigrant visa 
category. She does not claim -nor does the record show -her receipt of a major, international 
recognized award. She must therefore satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The Director found that, by submitting copies of published materials about herself in the IT 
entrepreneurial field and evidence that she judged the work of others in the field, the Petitioner met 
two evidentiary criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv). On appeal, she contends that she also 
documented her receipt of nationally recognized awards in the field and her performance in a leading 
or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (viii). 
B. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role for a Distinguished Organization 
The Petitioner contends that she submitted evidence of her "perform[ ance] in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that the person is (or was) a leader within the organization or 
establishment. Id. In contrast, a petitioner in a critical role "has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities." Id. A 
petitioner's role, rather than their title, determines whether their role is ( or was) critical. Id. 
Second, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment for which a petitioner holds ( or 
held) a leading or critical role has a distinguished reputation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). The term "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or 
"befitting an eminent person." Id. When determining whether an organization has a distinguished 
reputation, USCIS considers its size and longevity together with other relevant factors, such as: the 
scale of its customer base; or relevant media coverage. Id. 
We disagree with the Director's finding that the record lacks "objective, documentary evidence which 
demonstrates that [the Petitioner's] roles were leading or that she contributed in ways that are of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organizations' activities." Besides the Petitioner's 
3 
statement, a portion of her Russian company's policy manual lists her responsibilities as CEO. These 
duties include: strategic and tactical planning; drafting company policies; and determining its 
developmental priorities. The Petitioner also submitted copies of government and tax records showing 
that she solely owns and founded the company. The record also includes proof that she has won 
various entrepreneurial awards for developing the business. The Petitioner has therefore sufficiently 
established her leading role in her Russian company. 
We also disagree with the Director's conclusory statement that insufficient evidence demonstrates the 
Russian company's distinguished reputation. The record lacks evidence of the scale of the company's 
client base. But the record shows that the firm has conducted business since 2007. Evidence also 
shows the company's receipt of multiple regional Internet awards for web development services and 
significant Internet contributions. The awards were based on a combination of popular votes on the 
Internet and final determinations by expert committees of specialists. The awards show that the 
company has attained excellence and distinction in its field. The record also contains a copy of a letter 
from a regional government official praising the company for contributing to the area's digital 
development. The Petitioner has therefore sufficiently demonstrated that her Russian company has a 
distinguished reputation. 
A preponderance of the evidence establishes the Petitioner's leading role with a distinguished 
company. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
C. Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three of ten initial evidentiary criteria. Thus, we need not consider 
whether she received nationally or internationally recognized awards in her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on her qualifications as a noncitizen with 
extraordinary ability in the IT entrepreneurial field. The Director did not make this finding. Rather 
than determine the issue in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated receipt of sustained 
national or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in her field, 
indicating her status as one of that small percentage at her field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(2). The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, 
even if it does not fit a regulatory criterion or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The 
petition's approval or denial should stem from the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has demonstrated her intent to continue working in the United States in her field and 
her leading role in a company with a distinguished reputation. USCIS must now make a final merits 
determination regarding her eligibility as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20215990 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 13, 2022 
Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, anl !engineering manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner bad satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then be or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning a Bachelor of Engineering degree, specializing inl I engineering, from the 
Universit: ofl I in Australia, the Petitioner has worked since 2000 as an engineer in 
I IFollowing employment forl I and later as a consultant, the 
Petitioner began working for in 2011. Since 2013, he has worked for in the United States 
in various capacities. When he filed the petition in May 2021, he was ac=J engineering manager at I I Office in I I Texas, holding nonimmigrant status as an L-lA 
intracompany transferee in a managerial or executive capacity. The Petitioner states that has 
offered him "the position of Engineering Manager 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of these criteria, and to have submitted comparable 
evidence relative to a fifth criterion, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles ( comparable evidence); 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner established a leading or critical role for a distinguished 
organization and high remuneration. We agree with the Director regarding these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "For his [petition] to be granted, [the Petitioner] needs to establish 
just one of the three [ remaining claimed] criteria ... and to demonstrate his entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States." But under the Kazarian framework, meeting three 
evidentiary criteria does not automatically or presumptively establish sustained national or 
international acclaim. The final merits determination must show that the record as a whole establishes 
such acclaim. The Petitioner asserts that he has established the required acclaim, but he does not 
elaborate beyond asserting that he meets three or more of the initial evidentiary criteria, which is 
insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof in this matter. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that he has met a third criterion through participating as a 
judge of the work of others. Because the satisfaction of three criteria is sufficient for us to proceed to 
a final merits determination, we need not discuss other claimed criteria at length. Nevertheless, the 
2 
final merits determination will take into consideration the evidence that the Petitioner has submitted 
regarding his claims of original contributions of major significance and comparable evidence of 
scholarly articles and leading or critical role. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
Much of the evidence in the record concerns the Petitioner's role and reputation withinl I The 
Petitioner holds a position of significant responsibility at earning compensation in excess of half a 
million dollars per year. But, while we acknowledge thar==J is a majorl I company, that fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner asserts that his "ideas have also left a lasting impact on thel I industry, given that 
many of the world's topl I companies are shareholders in nearly all of I projects." But the 
Petitioner has also repeatedly argued that much of his work is confidential. For example, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) calls for evidence of authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner has asserted that internal 
L__Jmaterials constitute comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), because it cannot be 
published outside the company owing to its proprietary nature. 2 
There is an obvious tension between the two assertions that, on the one hand, the Petitioner has an impact 
throughout the industry, while on the other hand much of his work product cannot be disseminated outside 
of These conflicting perspectives complicate any attempt to show that the Petitioner has earned 
acclaim beyond the company that employs him. The assertion without evidence that I success has 
a "ripple effect" among other companies, and that the Petitioner's innovations have spurred rival 
companies to make improvements to their own practices, does not translate to wider recognition of the 
Petitioner individually, which is what the statute and regulations require. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for the submission of comparable evidence in instances when the 
regulatory criteria do not readily apply to the occupation. If professional or major trade publications exist in the field of I I engineering, then the "scholarly articles" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) should readily apply to the 
Petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner contends that there are few such publications, but nevertheless they do exist. The 
Petitioner submits a web printout listing several hundred journal titles, only one of which has a title 
that clearly relates to the industry. This list of journal titles is not comprehensive; rather, it is a list of journals 
issued by one publisher, identified only by the copyright notice attributed to "Open Access Publisher." The several hundred 
titles on the submitted list amount to only a small fraction of the "28,100 active scholarly peer-reviewed English-language 
journals" mentioned elsewhere in the record. The available evidence, although incomplete, is sufficient for us to conclude 
that the "scholarly articles" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) readily applies tol I engineering. 
3 
Letters intended to show how the Petitioner has impacted the field include qualifiers that appear to limit 
the scope of his contributions. For example, they may indicate that particular safety and efficiency 
initiatives are used on numerouQprojects in the I which does not indicate adoption 
throughout the field. Assertions of wider impact, influence, or setting an example for the industry lack 
specificity and corroboration. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "developed a plan to enable a crane to continue working safely [ during] 
helicopter operations," whereas prior practice was to "shut down all crane operations prior to landing a 
helicopter" onl I The Petitioner contends that "[t]his is a major change in the 
industry," but he does not show that the practice has been adopted outside I I Rather, the Petitioner 
describes a pilot program that has only recently begun implementation on a small number of SSuch 
innovations may present important cost reductions for the Petitioner's employer, but he has not shown 
that they have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
Furthermore, it is sometimes difficult to tell whether the Petitioner personally devised certain initiatives 
and projects, or, rather, promoted and shepherded ideas that originated elsewhere. For instance, the 
operations manager of I I one ofl I contractors, states that the Petitioner led "the 
collaborative development and implementing of ___________ procedures for 
and I I Used in other parts of the industry, [ the Petitioner] led the implementation of these 
processes/or collaborations between and (Emphasis added.) The record does not 
establish that this is the Petitioner's original contribution. The letter's phrasing suggests that processes 
were already "[u]sed in other parts of the industry," in which case the Petitioner's adoption of those 
methods "for collaborations between andl may have benefited those two companies, 
but it would not have amounted to an original contribution on his part. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has served on various committees and review panels involving other 
companies and government agencies. But the record does not establish how common or uncommon it is 
for high-ranking engineers in the Petitioner's field to serve in this way. Furthermore, while some of these 
bodies included individuals from different companies and government agencies, the above-mentioned 
general manager states that the Petitioner "was selected b leadership for participation in teams and 
committees." Thus, his selection does not inherently demonstrate recognition outside the company. 
Without evidence to provide a broader context, the Petitioner's participation in these bodies is not 
inherently an indication of sustained national or international acclaim. The Director acknowledged the 
Petitioner's apparent prominence within finding that he performs in a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation, fulfilling the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); the 
question is not whether the Petitioner's work is important td I but rather, whether he has achieved 
the broader recognition, rising to the level of sustained national or international acclaim, that the statute 
and regulations demand. 
For the above reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established the sustained national or 
international acclaim required for eligibility. Therefore, we need not consider the separate question 
of whether his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 3 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We will dismiss the appeal, because the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19576069 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 13, 2022 
Fonn I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. 
On appeal from that decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not met the threshold evidentiary 
requirements . Because the Director had already addressed the issue of sustained national or 
international acclaim, we also discussed that issue, agreeing with the Director's conclusions on that 
point. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Before he entered the United States, the Petitioner competed at high levels in Ukraine, Italy, France, 
and Greece. The Athletic Club, d/b/a I filed a nonimmigrant petition to 
classify the Petitioner as an 0-lA nonimmigrant, and the club hired him as a coach after he arrived in 
the United States in 2019. 
2 
In the October 2020 I-140 petition denial notice, the Director granted three of the Petitioner's claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria, but concluded, in the final merits determination, that the Petitioner had not 
shown sustained national or international acclaim. The Director also noted that the Petitioner's most 
notable career accomplishments were as an athlete, rather than as a coach. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2021, concluding that the Petitioner had not met at least 
three of the threshold criteria. Because the Director had already undertaken a final merits 
determination, we also concluded that the Petitioner had not established sustained national or 
international acclaim either as an athlete or as a coach. 
Much of the disputed evidence relates to the Petitioner's career as an athlete, but he seeks employment 
in the United States as a coach. Guidance from the USCIS Policy Manual relates directly to this point: 
Some of the most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the 
beneficiary's intent is to come to the United States and be employed as an athletic coach 
or manager. Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in 
general are not in the same area of expertise .... 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 1 
(Emphasis added.) In this case, the Petitioner competed internationally as recently as 2018. As we 
noted in our appellate decision, there have been conflicting determinations regarding individual 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and much of the evidence submitted on motion concerns 
the Petitioner's career as a competitive athlete rather than as a coach. A motion to reopen or reconsider 
does not entail de novo review of the full record, and even if we were to find that the Petitioner had 
established past acclaim as an athlete, there would remain the key issue of whether he had sustained 
that acclaim as a coach. 
We have considered all the evidence and arguments submitted on motion. Nevertheless, given the 
above facts and policy guidance, the ultimate question is whether the Petitioner has shown that his 
coaching activity has been at a level consistent with sustained national or international acclaim.2 For 
the reasons explained below, we conclude that he has not made such a showing. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
1. The Petitioner as an Athlete 
1 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Because acclaim is considered in the context of the final merits determination, determining whether the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained acclaim as a coach does not require an underlying finding that he meets the underlying evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as a coach. 
3 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that his work as an athlete satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, relating to prizes or awards; 
membership in associations; and judging the work of others. In our appellate decision, we concluded that 
the Petitioner had met only the criterion relating to prizes or awards. On motion, the Petitioner does not 
dispute the determination relating to original contributions, but maintains that he meets the other six 
criteria claimed previously. 
Upon review of newly-submitted evidence regarding! I national! I team, we conclude 
that the Petitioner's membership on that team is essentially a qualifying membership under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual, 
which indicates that selection for "a national all-star or Olympic team might serve as comparable evidence 
for evidence of memberships." 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that an article from www.sport.ua was about the Petitioner, 
relating to his work in his field, but we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the publication 
is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Evidence submitted on motion 
establishes that www.sport.ua is ranked #10 among sports websites in I This information is 
sufficient to show that the website is a qualifying publication for purposes of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the satisfaction of these three criteria is sufficient for us to proceed to a final merits determination, 
we need not discuss the Petitioner's evidence and arguments relating to the other three claimed criteria. 3 
Nevertheless, as explained above, the Petitioner seeks employment as a coach, rather than as a competitive 
athlete, and therefore the evidence must show that he has earned acclaim as a coach. 
2. The Petitioner as a Coach 
In our appellate decision, we discussed the after-the-fact claim (in a letter from 2020) that the Petitioner 
had briefly served as an assistant coach in 2016-17. We concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted 
any contemporaneous evidence to confirm that this claimed coaching work took place; its effect on the 
team's success; or its wider impact on the field overall. We also noted that, during the 2016-2017 season, 
4 
the Petitioner was also actively competing, and we concluded that the Petitioner had not established the 
extent or proportion of his claimed coaching duties. 
Newly submitted evidence regarding thel I national __ team does not establish that he 
coached the team, or that he earned acclaim for doing so. 
Other evidence submitted on motion concerns the Petitioner's more recent work with the ____ I I club. Previously, the Petitioner had submitted letters from the club's executive director, which 
we discussed in our appellate decision. In a new letter (dated February 2021), that same official states 
that the Petitioner "performs the duties of Head I I coach of the club and Technical Director of 
the I section." 
The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). At the time of filing in 2019, the Petitioner appears to have had a more limited role at the 
club. In his first letter, the club's executive director described the Petitioner as a "Master Coach" who 
served as a lead coach "for many of our programs," rather than for the club as a whole. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner's apparent promotion within the organization is not inherently a sign of national or international 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner states that the club pays him an annual salary of $50,000, which "is in the highest bracket," 
whereas "the average annual salary for this position is $40,000." The Petitioner apparently bases these 
assertions on a newly submitted printout from SimplyHired, pertaining to I Coach Salaries in 
Texas." The printout indicates that the average annual salary is $34,216, and $58,895 is at the 90th 
percentile. But this information does not appear to be directly relevant, because the data apply to all 
I I coaches, whereas the Petitioner earns $50,000 per year as a head coach. The pay differential 
between a coach and a head coach reflects a head coach's higher authority and greater responsibilities, 
without necessarily taking acclaim into consideration. 
The evidence submitted on motion also includes a printout from ZipRecruiter, indicating that the yearly 
"Head I Coach Salary in Texas" ranges from $15,063 to $81,718, and that the "Texas Average" 
is $52,710. The Petitioner's $50,000 salary is, therefore, slightly below the 'Texas Average," and well 
below the high end of the range. 
Even then, the Petitioner was not yet earning $50,000 a year when he filed the petition in 2019. A payroll 
printout from summer 2019 shows gross payments of $1384.62 every two weeks, which extrapolates to 
an annual salary of $36,000. The Petitioner has not shown that this level of compensation is reserved for, 
or indicative of, sustained acclaim in his field. 
In one of his earlier letters, the club's executive director stated that one of the club's teams had won "a 
Silver Medal nationally at the Boys USA I IN ational Event. ... We owe this success to the 
preparation that was given by [the Petitioner]." In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner 
did not submit sufficient evidence to substantiate this assertion. The Petitioner's evidence named 
individual athletes, but did not show that they played for thel I or that the Petitioner had 
coached them. The Petitioner does not address or resolve this issue on motion. The motion does not 
include any new evidence concerning the performance of1 I athletes or the Petitioner's role 
in coaching them. 
5 
Previously, and again on motion, the Petitioner has submitted published materials regarding, and dating 
from, his earlier career as a competitive athlete. The Petitioner does not claim that his coaching work has 
attracted similar notice in either the sports press or more general media. Whatever success and recognition 
the Petitioner may have achieved as a I player, his employment with what is claimed to be among 
the largest youthl clubs in Texas is not inherently indicative of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner's motion includes new evidence, establishing that he meets at least three of the threshold 
evidentiary criteria as an athlete. For the reasons discussed above, however, we conclude that this 
evidence does not establish proper cause for reopening the proceeding; the new evidence does not 
show that the Petitioner has established acclaim and recognition as a coach, as required based on his 
position and for the classification sought. We will, therefore, dismiss the motion. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not established "extraordinary ability 
as al I athlete, or as a coach." The errors that the Petitioner alleges on motion all concern his 
earlier work as an athlete. As such, these arguments do not affect the critical question of whether any 
acclaim he may have earned as an athlete has been sustained and carried forward into his coaching 
career. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that our decision on this point was incorrect based 
on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. As a result, we must dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20055457 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dance instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstra te recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the following two criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for three 
additional criteria. After reviewing the record, the Petitioner did establish that she meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she "has contributions of major significance to the DanceSport 
industry of the State of las well as the United States, by virtue of being a competitive coach for 
highly successful dancers, who have won prestigious national and international ballroom dance 
championships and international dance events from 2009 till present." Specifically, the Petitioner 
cites to three reference letters discussing her work with students. I !described the 
Beneficiary's coaching of I "who at the I lbecame a cham ion of the country and 
since did not lose that title in any of the age-groups." Likewise listed various students 
of the Beneficiary and stated that "they are Champions of and winners of top places in such 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 
prestigious international dancesport competitions." Similarly, mentioned several 
topics the Beneficiary covered at the Dance Academy and opined that her "students are 
amongl I most outstanding competitive dancers, who have achieved impressive success at the 
most important international level competitions in dancesport," and "[t]he results that [the Petitioner's] 
students achieved at these prestigious international competitions, placing as high as in top 10 and top 
15, validated the decision to trust them with the role ofrepresentatives in our country." Further I lstated that "our academy's training camps led by [the Petitioner] have resulted in significant 
improvement in our student's performance and have invited increased interest toward our Academy's 
work." 
The Petitioner also contends that her "work also impacted the DanceSport industry of the United States 
for a sustained period of times, starting 2018 through the present, as evidenced by the accomplishments 
of her students at DanceSport Club." She references a letter from I and 
who indicated that the Petitioner "has been coaching us and supervising our 
training process at Dance Sport Club since the middle of 2019, making a great contribution 
to our achievements." 
In this case, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the personal achievements of her students represent 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Moreover, the letters do not articulate how 
the Petitioner has impacted the overall field beyond the schools at where she taught or the students 
with whom she coached. 2 Furthermore, while the letters list various dance finishes of her students, 
they do not elaborate and explain the significance of these placements in the field or how the 
Petitioner's coaching of these students to various finishes rises to the level of original contributions of 
major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. Although the letters praise the Petitioner 
for her coaching abilities, they do not show how the Petitioner has impacted the field in a majorly, 
significant manner. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 3 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). We note that her contributions to the dance schools and 
academies are more applicable to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, a(J'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion. However, we will not 
consider new eligibility claims or evidence in our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required 
evidence and given a reason opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not 
consider evidence submitted on appeal of any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based 
on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 
1988). 5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 6 In his decision, the Director stated 
that while the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from an accountant certifying the Petitioner's 
employment as a ballroom dance coach earning an hourly rate of 2260 and the minimum wage in 
is 29.12, "there is no indication of the minimum wage data is for professionals in [the 
Petitioner's] field or the minimum wage in the country of in general." Further, the Director 
indicated that the Petitioner submitted short-term payments, a report from btl.gov reflecting hourly 
and monthly data of workers from 1997 -201 7 rather than from dance instructors, and a report from 
indeed.com showing the average salaries of dance instructors in the United States rather than high 
salaries. In addition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not offer any supporting financial 
documentation, such as payroll record or income tax forms, demonstrating the Petitioner's actual 
earnings for any given time. 
In respondinJ to the Petitioner's RFE documents, the Director indicated that the Petitioner submitted 
a U.S. Dollar FX Spot Rate chart from 2014-2021 and a list of wage recipients in 2014 
from the OL-SI Association for Promoting Ballroom Dancing inl I for four other 
individuals. The Director further stated: 
[The Petitioner] also submitted a printout from plando.co of the OL-SI accounting 
system showing [the Petitioner worked 150 hours in 2014 and a SalaryExpert report 
showing Dance Teachers i earn an average (not high) salary range from 63,598 
yr to 74/350 yr. This evidence establishes that [the Petitioner] earned a higher 
salary than other instructors at OL-SI but it does not establish that [the Petitioner has] 
earned a significantly high salary in relation to others in the greater field. We must also 
note that in criterion V, the letter from I I indicates that [the 
5 The Petitioner did not assert eligibility for this criterion either at the initial filing of the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
Petitioner] found OL-SI and it would stand to reason that [the Petitioner] would earn a 
higher salary that others within the organization. Further [ the Petitioner] did not submit 
any information to show how many hours the other instructors worked compared to 
[the Petitioner]. 
The Director also indicated that the Petitioner provided her OL-SI payroll statements for 2016 -2018 
and reports for the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics choreographers for 2016 -2018 and found: 
According to [the Petitioner's] payroll statements from OL-SI [the Petitioner] earned 
only $1,471.10 higher than the lowest wages in 2016, $3852 higher than the lowest 
wages in 2017, and $6,384 less than the lowest wages in 2018 according to the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Further we must note that [the Petitioner] seek[s] to enter 
the United States as a Dance Instructor. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports 
[the Petitioner] provided are for occupations of Choreographers. While the two [] 
occupations are related a Dance Teacher generally teaches how to execute dance steps 
while a Choreographer teaches a string of movements to do with accompanying music 
for a performance. Thus, [the Petitioner has] not established that [she] meet[s] this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence "[t]o overcome these contentions." Again, we 
will not consider new evidence that was not previously presented before the Director. See Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. at 766; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 533. In this case, the Director evaluated the 
offered evidence and correctly determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she commanded 
a high salary in relation to other dance instructors. As discussed bby the Director, the Petitioner presented e evidence comparing her wages to the minimum wages in to the average wages in 
to the average wages of dance instructors in I and limited to the wages of others at OL-
SI. 7 The Petitioner did not compare her salary to the high salaries of dance instructors inl I 
showing that she commands a high salary. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 
965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. 
INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary 
of other NHL defensemen). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
7 In addition, although she used her wages in she submitted comparable evidence to the wages of dance instructors, 
as well as choreographers, in the United States. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing that persons 
working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States). 
5 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 9 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
8 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 14, 2024 InRe: 31422136 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the 
Beneficiary did not fulfill any ofthem. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary meets nine 
evidentiary categories. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that the Beneficiary satisfies the judging 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and the 
leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 1 The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome 
the basis for denial of the petition through the Beneficiary's fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. 
Nevertheless, granting three of the initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to 
analyze the Beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they 
establish that he has sustained national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 The record includes documentation indicating that the Beneficiary has judged the work ofjewelry makers, displayed his 
work at jewelry exhibitions, and performed in a critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8745573 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestral violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, determining that the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence of a one-time achievement, or, in the alternative, evidence that he satisfied at 
least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not acknowledge or address the grounds for denial of the petition or 
contend that the petition was denied based on any error on the part of the Director. Rather, the 
Petitioner submits the Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, and an appeal statement. On the 
Form 1-290B the Petitioner marked Box l(b) in Part 2, indicating that he would submit a brief and/or 
additional evidence to this office within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal. Similarly , in his 
statement the Petitioner indicates that "[a] formal brief detailing the grounds for appeal will follow 
within the proscribed time frame." The record reflects that the Petitioner has not submitted a brief or 
any additional evidence since filing the appeal more than nine months prior. Accordingly, the record 
will be considered complete as presently constituted. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) states, in pertinent part that "[a]n officer to whom an appeal 
is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
Here, the Petitioner has not contested any aspect of the Director's decision and has not identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact on the part of the Director as a basis for the appeal. 
Therefore, the appeal will be summarily dismissed . 
We note that the Director's decision adequately addressed the evidence submitted with respect to each 
of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ix) and explained why such evidence 
was insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. The Petitioner was therefore given a sufficient 
explanation of the grounds for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), and a fair opportunity 
to contest the decision. We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As the petitioner has not identified an erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact in support of the appeal, the appeal must be summarily dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5939080 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a law firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a law firm, employs the Beneficiary as its instructional coordinator, developing several 
continuing legal education courses. The Beneficiary indicates ~revious employment between 2014 
and 2017 as an assistant professor I I Department at~ University 
in I I Saudi Arabia. In 2011 he was awarded a humanities doctorate in literature from the 
University of.__ _____ ~-- Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the 
Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary authored scholarly articles 
in professional publications, we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the judging 
criterion, discussed later. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically address the regulatory criteria. In two accompanying 
letters, however, the Petitioner references the Beneficiary's achievements for his firm and evidence 
relating to four additional criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the Beneficiary's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The 
Petitioner submitted several certificates that acknowledged and thanked the Beneficiary for his 
participation, contribution, and dedication to service. For instance, the Petitioner submitted several 
appreciation certificates from the UN International Strategy for Disaster Reduction that recognized 
the Beneficiary for his contributions as an online volunteer in "English to Arabic translation of disaster 
recovery training material" in 2012 and 2016, and a certificate from the Plan EU Office that recognized 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
his "translation of the Plan EU Youth Poll on Girls' Rights (15 questions in total) form English to 
Arabic" in 2012. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a "Certificate of Commendation" from The Education Charter 
Magazine, that recognized the Beneficiary's "outstanding contribution to Journalism and writing" for 
his having "submitted [an] article for the~edition of The Education Charter through the United 
Nations Volunteering Program" in 2012, and a "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Chamber of 
Computer Logistics People Worldwide for his having written "articles for international educational 
magazine" in 2016. The Petitioner further provided a letter of appreciation from the National Council 
of Teachers of English for the Beneficiary's volunteer work in participating in "the Banned Books 
Week chat" in 2014. 
However, as this criterion requires the Petitioner to submit documentation of the Beneficiary's 
"nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence [ emphasis added]," we are 
not persuaded that documentation that merely acknowledges or recognizes the Beneficiary's 
participation, as well as certificates that thank the Beneficiary for contributing articles to magazines 
in the field of education, equates to a prize or award consistent with the requirements of this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner did not submit any documentary evidence reflecting that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner provided a certificate indicating that in 2013 the academic 
board of the International Council of CCLP Worldwide "selected" the Beneficiary as a "Fellow 
Chartered Educator" based upon "his contribution in the field of Education and Research." The record 
does not contain any additional information regarding the basis for granting this distinction, and 
therefore did not establish that it is considered to be a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence in his field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about the 
Beneficiary relating to his work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as 
well as the title, date, and author of the material. 2 Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). The Petitioner 
submits several articles that cite to the Beneficiary's work. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion, and we agree with that determination. 
A review of the citing articles reveals that the Beneficiary is not a primary topic within the text. 
Instead, the references to his cited work in the articles' bibliographies are among dozens of cited texts 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
for the articles. Such a reference in a bibliography does not establish the articles are about the 
Beneficiary relating to his work in the field. Instead, articles which cite the Beneficiary's work are 
primarily about the authors' own work in the field. They are not about the Beneficiary or even about 
his work. A reference to a beneficiary's work without evaluation does not meet the plain language 
requirements set forth in this criterion. The submitted documentation does not discuss the merits of 
the Beneficiary's work, his standing in the field, any significant impact that his work has had on the 
field, or any other information so as to be considered published material about the Beneficiary as 
required by this criterion. The research articles citing to the Beneficiary's work are more relevant to 
the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and will be addressed there. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires the Petitioner to show that the Beneficiary has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 3 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on the Beneficiary's 
review of papers for the journal Interdisciplinary Literary Studies and for the J I I I 2015 and 2016 (.__ _______ ____,,, organized by the International 
Academic Forum (IAFOR). The Petitioner provided two emails dated April 2015 froml I 
of Interdisciplinary Literary Studies, inviting the Beneficiary to review the 
manuscript, .__ __________________________ __.' thanking the 
Beneficiary for agreeing to review the manuscript, and informing him "I would appreciate receiving 
your review by June 8, 2015." The Petitioner also provided two emails dated, respectively, December 
2014 and December 2015 from IAFOR Peer Review regarding 'l !conference Inquiries" 
and 'I I Conference Inquiries," requesting that the Beneficiary "review a minimum of three 
abstracts," and advising him that "[t]here are currently [abstracts] ready for you to review." 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the beneficiary has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in 
the same or allied field of specialization. 4 Here, the emails do not demonstrate that the Ben1ficiaryl 
actually completed the paper reviews for Interdisciplinary Literary Studies, I I or 
c=]. 5 Instead, as indicated above, the emails reflect a request to participate in the peer review process 
and to conduct the abstract review for Interdisciplinary Literary Studies by the stated deadline. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that the Beneficiary, in 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 Id. 
5 Id. (providing an example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the 
alien to do the review. accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
4 
fact, performed the paper reviews. For example, the Petitioner did not provide evidence from 
Interdisciplinary Literary Studies confirming that the Beneficiary accomplished the manuscript review 
request, or corroborating documentation from the I I conferences showing how many and which 
papers the Beneficiary reviewed. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary participated as a 
judge of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the 
decision of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has a beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 7 For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner submitted articles that have cited to 
the Beneficiary's published work in the field, evidence that the Beneficiary has presented his work at 
professional symposia, and several recommendation letters from colleagues. 
The record contains evidence of the Beneficiary'! participation and presentation in symposia in the 
field of education, such as l I in Japan. However, the Petitioner did not establish, 
for instance, the significance of the Beneficiary's presentations, if the field views them as authoritative, 
or whether they have been extensively referenced or cited by others. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that a presentation at a conference alone demonstrates 
a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, as discussed previously, the Petitioner submitted articles that cited to the Beneficiary's 
work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Beneficiary's research 
to the overall field be ond the authors who cited to his work. 8 For instance, the Petitioner provided 
an article titled ' 1 
Quranic Research), in which the author cited to the Beneficiary's article.__ _________ __. 
~--------------~ (The Journal of Inter-Religious Dialogue).9 However, the 
6 The Petitioner also provided an email dated April 2018 from.__ _____ ___.regarding .__ _____ ~__. I [" requesting that the Beneficiary "review a minimum of three abstracts." However, the Petitioner 
filed this petition in March 2017. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, the 
Petitioner cannot establish the Beneficiary's eligibility under this criterion based on his participation in judging in 2018, 
even if we were to determine that it otherwise satisfies all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
article does not distinguish or highlight the Beneficiary's written work from the 36 other cited texts 
used for the article. In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's published 
articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, regarding his testimonials, the authors praise the Beneficiary for his research abilities and 
work ethic; however, they do not show how his research constituted an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. For instance, the Petitioner ~rovided recommendation letters from several of 
the Beneficiary's colleagues atl I I I states that the Beneficiary is a 
researcher who "is willing to go above and beyond limitations and expectations." I I 
I I a member of the Beneficiary's dissertation committee, describes him as "extremely hard 
working" with "good judgment, research and analytical abilities" and possessing "unique insights in 
the area of the American Literary tradition." I I who supervised the 
Beneficiary's dissertation, calls him "a very good scholar" and "a hard worker."I I I . I one of the editors of his dissertation, asserts that during the Beneficiary's years of teaching he 
"helped develop curricula in the fields of both linguistics, American literature, and education." In 
addition] I the Beneficiary's neighbor, praises the Beneficiary's "very inquiring and open 
mind." The aforementioned authors did not provide specific, detailed information explaining the 
significance of the Beneficiary's research, publications, and presentations or how they resulted in 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides several additional reference letters from the Beneficiary's 
colleagues at the I O I University. I I 
confirms that the Beneficiary headed the department between 2015 to 2017 and praises his competence 
in his specialization ofl I literature. I lasserts that the Beneficiary 
"has published several research papers on the general areas of Culture Studies and Critical Theories 
and through which his contribution to the academic department is unmatchable." ~ 
.__ ________ ____. describes the Beneficiary as "an able administrator" of the L_J 
Department, who developed a graduate research course and a new academic plan for the Bachelor of I I degree program. I lpraises the Beneficiary's "articulate passion for 
teaching, scholarly pursuit of independent research and exemplary administrative acumen," and 
provides that the Beneficiary was involved in "curriculum revision and evaluation reforms." I I I I states that the Beneficiary is "a passionate and committed scholar, 
administrator, and academic." .__ _______ ~praises the Beneficiary's "analytical and artistic 
skills" in the fine arts and humanities. Upon review, the letters from the Beneficiary's colleagues in 
the .__ _________ ____.University praise his contributions to the department in the areas of 
curriculum development, academic rigor, and teaching excellence, but they did not show how the 
Beneficiary's knowledge and expertise have significantly influenced the overall field in a major way. 
While the letters applaud the Beneficiary's abilities, they do not identify original contributions that 
have been of major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a beneficiary's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 10 On the other 
hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 
to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 Moreover, USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary satisfies the scholarly articles 
criterion, he does not meet any additional criteria on appeal regarding awards, published material, 
judging, and original contributions of major significance. While the Petitioner argues and submits 
evidence that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements for one additional criterion on appeal, relating 
to leading or critical role for distinguished organizations at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not 
reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.12 Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Beneficiary has conducted research and authored 
scholarly articles, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 
F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions 
have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9579407 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 15, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a law firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the evidence 
submitted at the time the petition was filed did not establish the Beneficiary 's eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b )(8)(ii). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a law firm, employs the Beneficiary as its instructional coordinator, developing several 
continuing legal education courses. The Beneficiary indicates previous employment between 2014 
and 2017 as an assistant professor of.__ __________ ___.Department a~ !University 
inl I Saudi Arabia. In 2011 he was awarded a humanities doctorate in literature from the 
University.__ ________ _.· Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the 
Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the evidence submitted at the time the petition was 
filed did not establish the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(8)(ii). On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically address the regulatory criteria. In 
two accompanying letters, however, the Petitioner references the Beneficiary's achievements for his 
firm and evidence relating to six criteria. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the Beneficiary's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
Petitioner submitted several certificates that acknowledged and thanked the Beneficiary for his 
participation, contribution, and dedication to service. For instance, the Petitioner submitted several 
appreciation certificates from the UN International Strategy for Disaster Reduction that recognized 
the Beneficiary for his contributions as an online volunteer in "English to Arabic translation of disaster 
recovery training material" in 2012 and 2016, and a certificate from the Plan EU Office that recognized 
his "translation of the Plan EU Youth Poll on Girls' Rights (15 questions in total) form English to 
Arabic" in 2012. The Petitioner also provided a letter of appreciation from the Humanities Education 
1 The Petitioner stated on the Form T-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that it would submit a brief and/or evidence to 
our office within 30 days. The record reflects that we did not receive a brief or additional evidence. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
and Research Association HERA thankin the Beneficia 
at the '----------------------------------------' 2016 HERA conference in New Orleans. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a "Certificate of Commendation" from The Education Charter 
Magazine, recognizing the Beneficiary'~tstanding contribution to Journalism and writing" for his 
having "submitted [an] article for the L_J edition of The Education Charter through the United 
Nations Volunteering Program" in 2012, and a "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Chamber of 
Computer Logistics People Worldwide (CCLPW) for his having written "articles for international 
educational magazine" in 2016. The Petitioner farther provided a letter of appreciation from the 
National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) for the Beneficiary's volunteer work in participating 
in "the Banned Books Week chat" and his participation in the 2014 and 2015 NCTE annual 
convention. 
However, as this criterion requires the Petitioner to submit documentation of the Beneficiary's 
"nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence [ emphasis added]," we are 
not persuaded that documentation that merely acknowledges or recognizes the Beneficiary's 
participation, as well as certificates that thank the Beneficiary for contributing articles to magazines 
in the field of education, equates to a prize or award consistent with the requirements of this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner did not submit any documentary evidence reflecting that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner provided a certificate indicating that in 2013 the academic 
board of the International Council of CCLPW "selected" the Beneficiary based upon "his contribution 
in the field of Education and Research, A warding to him the rights, privileges, and honour to use the 
suffix 'Fellow Chartered Educator."' The record does not contain any additional information 
regarding the basis for granting this distinction, and therefore did not establish that it is considered to 
be a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in his field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about the 
Beneficiary relating to his work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as 
well as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). The Petitioner 
submits several articles that cite to the Beneficiary's work. A review of the citing articles reveals that 
the Beneficiary is not a primary topic within the text. Instead, the references to his cited work in the 
articles' bibliographies are among dozens of cited texts for the articles. Such a reference in a 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
bibliography does not establish the articles are about the Beneficiary relating to his work in the field. 
Instead, articles which cite the Beneficiary's work are primarily about the authors' own work in the 
field. They are not about the Beneficiary or even about his work. A reference to a beneficiary's work 
without evaluation does not meet the plain language requirements set forth in this criterion. The 
submitted documentation does not discuss the merits of the Beneficiary's work, his standing in the 
field, any significant impact that his work has had on the field, or any other information so as to be 
considered published material about the Beneficiary as required by this criterion. The research articles 
citing to the Beneficiary's work are more relevant to the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and will be addressed there. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to show that the Beneficiary has acted as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. 4 For the reasons outlined below, the 
record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits evidence relating to the Beneficiary's review of papers for the journal 
Interdisciplinary Literary Studies and for the .__ ______________ ___.in 2015 and 
20161 ,I, organized by the International Academic Forum (IAFOR). The 
Petitioner provided two emails dated April 2015 froml bf Interdisciplinary 
Literary Studies, inviting the Beneficiary to review the manuscript, I I I I" thanking the Beneficiary for agreeing to review the manuscript, and 
informing him "I would appreciate receiving your review by June 8, 2015." The Petitioner also 
provided two emails dated, respectively, December 2014 and December 1015 from IAFOR Peer 
Review regarding 'I I Conference Inquiries" and ,j Conference Inquiries," 
requesting that the Beneficiary "review a minimum of three abstracts," and advising him that "[t]here 
are currently [abstracts] ready for you to review." 
In addition, the Petitioner provides two emails dated A~ril 2018 from IAFOR Peer Review regarding 
the 2018 I I, requestin: that the Beneficiary 
"review a minimum of three abstracts" for the July 2018 conference in I I England. The 
Petitioner farther submits a certificate from the Chairman and CEO of IAFOR indicating that in July 
2018 the Beneficiary participated i~ I "by performing the duties of a Senior 
Reviewer .... " 5 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 The Petitioner also provides a ce1iificate from IAFOR indicating that in July 2019 the Beneficiary paiiicipated in 
I I "by perfonning the duties of a member of the Review Committee .... " However, the Petitioner filed this 
petition in May 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(I). Therefore, the Petitioner 
4 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the beneficiary has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in 
the same or allied field of specialization. 6 Here, the emails do not demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
actually completed the journal and conference paper reviews for Interdisciplinary Literary Studies, , , I 7 Instead, as indicated above, the emails reflect a request to 
participate in the peer review process, and to conduct the abstract review for Interdisciplinary Literary 
Studies by the stated deadline. Moreover, the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence 
establishing that the Beneficiary, in fact, performed the paper reviews. For example, the Petitioner 
did not provide sufficient evidence from Interdisciplinary Literary Studies confirming that the 
Beneficiary accomplished the manuscript review request, or corroborating documentation from the 
.__ ______ _.I conferences showing how many and which papers the Beneficiary reviewed. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary participated as a 
judge of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has a beneficiary made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, 
have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner submitted articles that have cited to the Beneficiary's 
published work in the field, evidence that the Beneficiary has presented his work at professional 
symposia, and several recommendation letters from colleagues. 
The record contains evidence of the Beneficiary's participation and presentation in symposia in the 
field of education, such asl I, in I I Japan. However, the Petitioner did not establish, 
for instance, the significance of the Beneficiary's presentations, if the field views them as authoritative, 
or whether they have been extensively referenced or cited by others. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that a presentation at a conference alone demonstrates 
a contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, as discussed previously, the Petitioner submitted articles that cited to the Beneficiary's 
work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Beneficiary's research 
cannot establish the Beneficiary's eligibility under this criterion based on his participation in judging in July 2019, even if 
we were to determine that it otherwise satisfies all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 Id. (providing an example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the 
alien to do the review, accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 9 For instance, the Petitioner provided 
an article titled International Journal on 
Quranic Research), in which the author cited to the Beneficiary's article'.__ _________ _. 
.__ ______________ ~(The Journal of Inter-Religious Dialogue).10 However, the 
article does not distinguish or highlight the Beneficiary's written work from the 36 other cited texts 
used for the article. In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's published 
articles through citations rise to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, regarding his testimonials, the authors praise the Beneficiary for his research abilities and 
work ethic; however, they do not show how his research constituted an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. For instance, o~eal the Petitioner provides recommendation letters from 
several of the Beneficiary's colleagues at[___J. I lstates that the Beneficiary 
is a researcher who "is willing to go above and beyond limitations and expectations." I I I I, a member of the Beneficiary's dissertation committee, describes him as "extremely 
hard working" with "good judgment, research and analytical abilities" and possessing "unique insights 
in the area of the American Literary tradition." I I who supervised the 
Beneficiary's dissertation, calls him "a very good scholar" and "a hard worker." I I I I one of the editors of his dissertation, asserts that during the Beneficiary's years of teaching he 
"helped develop curricula in the fields of both linguistics, American literature, and education." In 
addition! I the Beneficiary's neighbor, praises the Beneficiary's "very inquiring and open 
mind." The aforementioned authors did not provide specific, detailed information explaining the 
significance of the Beneficiary's research, publications, and presentations or how they resulted in 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also provides additional reference letters from the Beneficiary's colleagues at the 
Department I I ate=} University. I I confirms that 
the Beneficiary headed the department between 2015 and 201 7 and praises his competence in his 
specialization of I I literature.'------------~ asserts that the Beneficiary "has 
published several research papers on the general areas of Culture Studies and Critical Theories and 
through which his contribution to the academic department is unmatchable." I I 
I I describes the Beneficiary as "an able administrator" of the I I Department, who 
developed a graduate research course and a new academic plan for the Bachelor I I degree 
program. I I praises the Beneficiary's "articulate passion for teaching, 
scholarly pursuit of independent research and exemplary administrative acumen," and provides that 
the Beneficiary was involved in "curriculum revision and evaluation reforms."I l I I states that the Beneficiary is "a passionate and committed scholar, administrator, and 
academic." Upon review, the letters from the Beneficiary's colleagues in thd O I Department at I I University praise his contributions to the department in the areas of curriculum development, 
academic rigor, and teaching excellence, but they did not show how the Beneficiary's knowledge and 
expertise have significantly influenced the overall field in a major way. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126. 134-135 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
10 Although we discuss a sample aiticle, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
While the letters applaud the Beneficiary's abilities, they do not identify original contributions that 
have been of major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a beneficiary's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 11 On the other 
hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered 
to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 Moreover, USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original scholarly contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record shows that the Beneficiary has published scholarly articles in The Journal of Inter­
Religious Dialogue, The Indian Review of World Literature, and International Journal of Applied 
Linguistics & English Literature, among others. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary satisfies the scholarly articles 
criterion, he does not meet any additional criteria on appeal regarding lesser awards, published 
material, judging, and original contributions of major significance. While the Petitioner references 
evidence regarding one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role for 
distinguished organizations at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As 
the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.13 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' d in part 596 
F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions 
have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Beneficiary has conducted research and authored 
scholarly articles, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20882300 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , area estate developer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but then revoked that 
approval, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had established eligibility for 
the immigrant classification she sought. The matter is now before us on appeal. 1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The Petitioner submitted a brief statement in support of her appeal, and indicated that a supplemental brief would be 
forwarded to our office within 30 days. No further documentation has been received. Therefore , the record will be 
considered complete as currently constituted . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155 states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." 
Regarding revocation on notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Estime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself: the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability based on her work as a real 
estate developer, and her Form I-140 petition was initially approved. Subsequently, the Director 
issued a notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) the approval upon receiving information from the United 
States Consulate in Guangzhou that the Petitioner did not intend to work in the United States in the 
field as outlined in her business plan, and further indicated that she had no involvement in the real 
estate projects she initially claimed she would develop. In the NOIR, the Director stated that this 
information contradicted the claims set forth by the Petitioner in her business plan and cast doubt on 
whether the Petitioner would continue to work in the field of real estate development as required under 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a personal statement, stating that she and her husband 
incorporated their U.S. company in California in 20152 with the intention to provide planning and 
development services to rundown and impoverished areas of the United States. She claimed that in 
2017, as a result of academic challenges faced by her son, her family moved back to China, and this 
unexpected move put her development plans on hold but that she intended to resume her plans in the 
future. Regarding the contradictions noted during her consular interview, the Petitioner asserts that 
the consular officer either misunderstood her responses or incorrectly translated her answers. 
The Director revoked the approval of the petition on December 17, 2020, dete1mining that the 
Petitioner's response to the NOIR was not persuasive in establishing that she would be coming to the 
United States to continue working in the field of real estate development. Specifically, the Director 
noted that the documentation submitted in response to the NOIR, which included undated copies of 
an international investment certificate and wire transfer to a U.S. bank, documents demonstrating the 
account balance of a I laccount for the period from November 30, 2017, to March 31, 2018, a 
2018 wire transfer receipt that is partially illegible, and her marriage certificate, did not support her 
claim that she was misunderstood during her interview or was coming to the U.S. to continue working 
in her field of expertise. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a one-page personal statement, again asserting that her answers to 
the questions posed in the consular interview were misunderstood. She argues on appeal that the 
Director erred by ignoring the documentation she submitted in support of eligibility, specifically 
asserting that her business plan, proof of finance, articles of incorporation, and proof of wire transfer 
sufficiently established that she would be coming to the U.S. to work in the field of real estate 
development. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires "clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United 
States to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." 
Here, the record does not contain clear evidence that the Petitioner will continue work in her area of 
expertise in the United States. Although she asserts on appeal that her original business plan, covering 
2 Corporate records submitted into the record demonstrate that her company was incorporated in California in 2014, but 
dissolved in 2015. 
3 
the period from 2017 to 2019, sufficiently outlines her intended business operations in the United 
States, the plan is now outdated as noted by the Director, and the Petitioner acknowledges she departed 
the United States in 2017 prior to implementing any projects outlined therein . Although she refers to 
articles of incorporation on appeal, corporate documentation submitted in response to the NOIR 
indicate that her company I was dissolved in December 
2015, over a year prior to the filing of the instant petition, and no documentation has been submitted 
to demonstrate that a new corporation or business venture was in operation at the time of filing or has 
since been launched. 
We also note her reliance on the financial documents submitted in response to the NOIR, but as 
discussed by the Director, these documents do not establish that she wi11 be coming to the United 
States to work as a real estate developer as originally claimed. Some documents are undated, one is 
illegible, and the documents demonstrating a wire transfer and thel I account balances are in her 
husband's name. The Director noted that these documents did not have significant evidentiary weight 
given their illegibility and absence of dates. Moreover , given the consular officer's report that the 
Petitioner stated she had no intention of working in the U.S. and that the identified projects were her 
husband's projects, the fact that the legible financial documents submitted relate solely to her husband 
suggests that the projects may in fact be his projects and the consular officer reported, and thus 
unde1mine her claims that she was misunderstood during her interview. 
The above inconsistencies, discrepancies, and contradictory statements are not resolved by 
independent, objective evidence, and diminish the reliability of the evidence in support of the 
Petitioner's claim that she is coming to the United States to work in the field of real estate 
development. Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may lead to a reevaluation of the 
reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter of 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. While the Petitioner maintains that there was some misc01rununication 
that occurred during her interview , she did not submit new objective independent evidence 
establishing her intent to come to the United States to work in the field or to support her assertion that 
her answers were misunderstood by the consular officer. A mere explanation is not the independent 
objective evidence contemplated by Matter of Ho, and we find the explanations offered unpersuasive. 
Insufficient reason exists to doubt that the consular interview was competently conducted and 
faithfully reported. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not contain clear evidence that the Petitioner will continue work in her area of 
expertise in the United States. Therefore, she has not established eligibility pursuant to section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the petition's approval will remain revoked. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 15, 2023 In Re: 27463551 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a figure skating coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant motions that satisfy 
these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N 
Dec. 464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits a copy ofa January 2022 article from Zippia, "Can I coach 
without a degree?," which reads, in part: "Yes, you can coach without a degree. While you will not 
be teaching at a school, you can coach non-school-related sports and other lifestyle activities. There 
are many different types ofprofessional coaches, from sports to life to career coaches -most ofwhich 
you can do without a college degree." Citing this information, the Petitioner states: 
[The Petitioner] has obtained a coaching position at a sports school that . .. requires a 
professional diploma in physical education in addition to skating abilities. Therefore, 
[the Petitioner] is part ofthe small percentage of figure skating coaches who possess a 
professional diploma in physical education, as not all figure skating coaches have 
obtained such a diploma. According to the International Skating Union's coaching 
requirements, only about 10% offigure skating coaches hold a professional diploma in 
physical education. 
The above information places the Petitioner in a minority among skating coaches, but a relevant 
academic degree does not fulfill any ofthe ten initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and it does not 
place degree holders among a "small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Zippia article lacks an author's attribution, and 
Zippia appears to be a website specializing in career information and advice, rather than figure skating 
or athletic coaching. The a1iicle indicates that coaching jobs "at a school" do require a degree. 
Therefore, among skating coaches at schools, the Petitioner's degree appears to amount to a required 
credential rather than an indicator of extraordinary ability or sustained acclaim. 
The printout from Zippia does not provide new facts that would support a determination of eligibility 
for the benefit the Petitioner seeks. Therefore, the printout does not show proper cause for reopening 
the proceeding. 
We now tum to the second document submitted on motion. The Petitioner's initial submission 
included a translated letter from the executive director ofthe Figure Skating Federation ofthel,_____. 
~--~--__,..... After the Petitioner submitted that letter, the Director informed the Petitioner, in a 
request for evidence (RFE), that the translator's certification was deficient. The Director listed the 
requirements for such certification, found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner's response to the 
RFE included compliant certifications for newly submitted documents, but not for the previously 
submitted translations. 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we stated that the lack of compliant certifications reduced the 
evidentiary weight of the affected translations. The Petitioner now submits a new translation 
certificate for the letter from thd IThe Director's RFE afforded the Petitioner the opportunity 
to address the deficiency in the translation certification. The Petitioner did not overcome the 
deficiency at that time. The submission ofthe new certification at this late date does not show proper 
cause to reopen the proceeding. When a petitioner responds to an RFE, all requested materials must 
be submitted together at one time. Submission of only some of the requested evidence will be 
considered a request for a decision on the record. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll). Cf Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (holding that evidence will not be considered on appeal when the 
affected party was previously put on notice of required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it). We will further discuss the information in thel Iletter below, in the context of 
the motion to reconsider. 
Because the new materials submitted on motion do not show proper cause for reopening, we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. 
We will now address the motion to reconsider. In our appellate decision, we stated: "The Petitioner has 
performed as a figure skating competitor and intends to work as a coach and choreographer for figure 
skaters. She attained her foreign bachelor's degree in physical education and began coaching one year 
after receiving her degree." On motion, the Petitioner asserts that the above "statement is not entirely 
accurate," because the Petitioner "has over 10 years of coaching experience, which she began 
2 
immediately after her figure skating career. Additionally, she has provided her resume in the initial filing, 
which likely includes her coaching experience." The quoted passage from our appellate decision was a 
brief summary ofthe Petitioner's career, rather than a basis for dismissal ofthe appeal. Neither the length 
of the Petitioner's experience nor the timing of her degree are relevant criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), nor do they inherently demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim as required 
by section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
As noted in our prior decision, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth ten criteria, listing types 
ofevidence that could, subject to a final merits determination, help to establish extraordinary ability. The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven ofthese crite1ia. We agreed with the Director that the 
Petitioner had satisfied only one ofthem, relating to judging the work of others. 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses two of the regulatory criteria, discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's membership in the I I but 
concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the membership meets the regulatory requirements: 
The evidence did not show that the memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. The beneficiary, for example, did 
not provide the bylaws or other membership requirements to show that outstanding 
achievements are a condition of membership, and that the judging of membership is 
comprised of recognized national or international experts. Here, the beneficiary's 
evidence is insufficient to meet the regulat01y requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she had established the reputations of thel IPresidium 
members who judge candidates for membership, and that she had established the importance of her 
activities. In dismissing the appeal, we concluded that the Petitioner did "not remedy the lack ofmaterial 
relating to membership requirements." 
On motion, as noted above, the Petitioner resubmits a letter from the executive director of the I , I 
with a new translation certification. The Petitioner does not, however, establish that we erred in our prior 
decision. The letter states that membership "requires outstanding achievements evaluated by recognized 
national or international experts," and that thel !accepted the Petitioner into membersh~ 
general, unanimous decision of all 7 members ofthe Presidium of the Federation present." TheL___J 
is a regional association, rather than a national or international one, and the Petitioner does not establish 
that Presidium membership requires recognition beyond the local vicinity ofl I Also, the letter 
does not cite to any bylaws or other primary evidence to corroborate the assertion that thel Irequires 
outstanding achievement as a condition for admission to membership. The minutes of the July 2020 
Presidium meeting, also in the Petitioner's initial submission, indicate that three individuals were denied 
membership because ofinsufficient information concerning their "activities in thel I-" The 
document does not say what sort of"activities" are necessary to qualify for membership. 
3 
The Petitioner has not shown that we erred in concluding that she had not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion because she wrote an article in championat.com with the 
translated title "Why should you sta1t skating? 7 good reasons from the coach." In the denial notice, the 
Director noted the lack ofa complete English translation, and stated that the Petitioner had not established 
"that championat.com qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or some other fo1m of major 
media." In our dismissal ofthe appeal, we stated: 
As the Petitioner operates outside of academia, she should demonstrate the article was 
written for learned persons in the field. The article does not meet this requirement as it 
appears intended for those who do not compete in her athletic field, and she offers no 
arguments to the contrary. As the Petitioner has not shown this evidence qualifies as a 
scholarly article, it would serve no purpose to evaluate whether it appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
On motion, the Petitioner argues that she has established that championat.com is a major publication. As 
we observed in our decision, we need not consider that question until the Petitioner establishes that her 
article is scholarly. Outside of academia, we consider a "scholarly article" to be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge ofa field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner asserts, on motion: 
The article in question is composed of 7 distinct sections that highlight the physical 
education benefits of figure skating. It should be noted that these sections are not based 
on abstract observations or solely on [the Petitioner's] personal opinion, but rather reflect 
the profound knowledge and expertise that she has gained through her experiences in the 
field, as well as her formal education in Physical Education at the university level. 
The definition of a scholarly publication rests on the knowledge and expertise of the intended readers, 
rather than that of the author. The Petitioner has not shown that her article is a scholarly effort aimed at 
such readers. Rather, the translated introductory fragment ofthe article reads, in part: "Like any physical 
activity, ice skating develops and strengthens muscles that are not involved in everyday life. And also, 
ofcourse, burns calories. But that's not all. I will tell you about seven reasons that will convince you to 
get up on skates this winter." The Petitioner had previously submitted a letter from another figure skater, 
who stated that the purpose of the article was to "make a non-skater start to learn to skate." 
The Petitioner has not established that she wrote a scholarly article for a specialized readership, as 
opposed to a popular article for a general readership. Therefore, she has not shown proper cause for 
reconsideration. 
4 
Beyond the above arguments, the Petitioner states that she has no desire to return to her native Russia, 
due to factors such as her disagreement with that country's war with Ukraine. We do not question the 
depth or sincerity of the Petitioner's beliefs in this regard, but the classification she seeks in this 
proceeding is contingent on sustained national and international acclaim, which she has not established. 
In our prior decision, we granted one ofthe ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and reserved discussion 
on two others. Ifthe Petitioner had satisfied both ofthe reserved criteria, then the discussion would have 
proceeded to a final merits determination, but such a dete1mination would not have resulted in approval 
ofthe petition. The Petitioner's evidence shows that she is a knowledgeable and experienced skater and 
coach, but the record does not show that she has attained sustained national or international acclaim as 
required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, and it does not show that she has risen to the very top of 
her field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Nevertheless, we will briefly discuss here one ofthe two reserved criteria, to show that we and the Director 
did not eIT by omitting the final merits determination. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed several instances ofpublished material. In response to the RFE, however, 
she narrowed her claim to an appearance on Utro Rossii on the Russia 1 television network. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner had not established that she had appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that she had previously submitted 
evidence showing that Russia 1 is a major television channel in Russia. 
The published material should be about the person. The person and the person's work need not be the 
only subject ofthe material, but the material should include a substantial discussion of the person's work 
in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 appendix. The translated transcript does 
not indicate that the television segment on Russia 1 was about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the 
field. Rather, the transcript indicates that the focus ofthe piece was children learning to skate. The piece 
included footage of the Petitioner teaching a group of children, and talking to a reporter about changing 
attitudes in the field. The Petitioner briefly appeared in this television segment, but it is not about her and 
her work in the field. Rather, she appears to have been shown as a representative example ofa skating 
teacher, while the reporter discussed general statistics and information rather than the Petitioner's career 
or recognition. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established 
that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy at the time we issued 
our decision. Therefore, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17586777 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of individuals at the top 
of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; MatterofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner works as a television host in Venezuela and intends to work in 
a similar capacity in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could satisfy as many as 
six of these criteria, and the Director determined that he met three of them. Specifically, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards or prizes, published materials in major media, and judging the work of others in an 
allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation and 
commercial success in the performing arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (x).1 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director was 
required to conduct a final merits determination. In a final merits detennination, the Director must 
examine and weigh all of the evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has the high 
level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Specifically, the Director 
must review the totality of the evidence, regardless of whether certain evidence was found to be 
sufficient to meet one of the evidentiary criteria, to dete1mine whether the Petitioner has sustained 
1 The record reflects thatthe Petitioner also initially claimed that he could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3 )(vii), 
which requires evidence that he has displayed his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Director did not address 
this criterion in the final decision. 
2 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
analysis is limited to just a few sentences. We agree with that assertion as the decision contains little 
discussion of the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied the awards, published material, and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii), and (iv), the evidence related to these three criteria is barely mentioned or weighed in the final 
merits discussion or elsewhere in the decision. In fact, the Director's analysis of this evidence is 
contained in a single sentence: "The petitioner has two regional awards, articles that date back to 2010 
and while USCIS will concede[] that judging thel I pageant could be considered an 
allied field, it does not establish that the petitioner is someone who has reached the top of their field." 
We note that the Director had already determined that the Petitioner's twol IA wards 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires that he demonstrate his receipt of 
nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes. The Director's subsequent characterization 
of these awards as "regional awards," was contradictoryto this determination and not explained. With 
respect to the published materials in the record, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted evidence 
that he consistently received major media coverage between 2009 and 2019 and the Director failed to 
explain why such evidence would not contribute to a finding that he enjoyed sustained national 
acclaim. The Petitioner states that the Director's conclusion appears to be based, in large part, on the 
nature of his judging activities rather than on an analysis of the evidence as a whole. 
The Director further stated, without further reference to the facts of this case, that "[t]o be considered 
an alien of extraordinary ability, the petitioner is compared to those in his field as a whole, including 
those with more prestigious accomplishments, not solely those in his city or country." The Petitioner 
asserts that the Director applied a standard that would erroneously exclude an individual who enjoys 
national acclaim ( as opposed to international acclaim) from eligibility for this classification. We agree 
that the Director did not provide an adequate explanation for this statement, which appears to 
inaccurately equate national acclaim with city-wide acclaim. Nor did he explain his reasoning as to 
why the evidence here did not support a finding that the Petitioner compares favorably with those in 
his field as a whole. 
The Director's brief final merits discussion concludes with a determination that "the petitioner has not 
established that he has contributed to his field as a whole in some remarkable way resulting in 
sustained acclaim." The Director appears to be referring to elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence of an individual's original contributions of major 
significance in their field. The record reflects thatthe Petitioner did not claim to satisfy this evidentiary 
criterion. Because he neither claimed nor submitted evidence in support of that criterion, it was 
inappropriate to analyze whether the Petitioner has made "remarkable" contributions in his field and 
to weigh the lack of such evidence as a negative factor in determining eligibility. 
In addition to not fully weighing the evidence submitted in support of the three regulatory criteria that 
the Petitioner satisfied, the Director's final merits discussion disregarded evidence that the Petitioner 
3 
had provided in support of three additional criteria, as well as evidence he had submitted in support of 
his claim that he enjoys sustained national acclaim as a television host in Venezuela. Such evidence 
related to the display, leading or critical roles, and commercial success criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii) and (x). Because the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final 
merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
he is an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20612257 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 17, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business executive in the pharmaceutical industry, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that record did not establish 
that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as 
required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 
l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business executive with more than 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical 
industry. The record reflects that she most recentl served asl !(Managing 
Director) of from 2017 until 2019. She previously 
worked as a General Manager of (2013 to 201 7) and spent 17 years 
working in progressive positions for th roup of companies in Europe and the Americas, most 
recently as Executive President of in Venezuela from 2011 to 2013. The Petitioner 
indicates that she intends to establish a U.S.-based consulting business to assist, coach and mentor 
business and organizational leaders. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires documentation of 
published material about the petitioner, relating to their work, in major trade or professional 
publications or other major media. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
met this criterion. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she can satisfy five additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all the evidence provided, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore has not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
1 The record includes a 2019 online article titled ________________ published by 
The article is about the Petitioner , includes the required title, date, and author, and is accompanied by evidence 
that the publication qualifies as major media, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This regulatory criterion requires evidence of the petitioner's receipt of prizes or awards and evidence 
that such prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner established that she was the recipient of three awards: (1 ) ________ 
Award, presented by the 18th Edition of the Asia Pacific HRM Congress in 2019 and (2) two awards 
I I Award and I !Award) presented to her byl I in 2017. Although we 
acknowledge that the awards granted by I I recognize the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, the record does not establish the national or international significance of the awards 
or that the company's internal company awards program, which is necessarily limited to persons who 
work within a single organization, meets the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not pursue her claim that she meets this criterion based on her awards from 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a copy of her award certificate 
and a screenshot from the Asia Pacific HRM Congress website promoting its 2019 awards. The 
website lists the organizational and individual award categories. According to this information, entries 
for the individual category awards should be accompanied by a personal profile for the nominated 
person with information such as achievements, awards or accolades received, media coverage, articles 
published, photographs and "any other relevant details." The website indicates that "[t]he Jury will 
evaluate each entry & will decide on winners." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence was not 
sufficient to establish that the awards she received met all requirements of this criterion. The Director 
advised that she should submit additional objective evidence demonstrating who is eligible for 
consideration for such awards, the criteria used to grant the awards, and the significance of the prizes 
or awards, to include the national or international recognition associated with them and the number of 
prizes awarded each year. 
In response, the Petitioner resubmitted a copy of her award certificate and the website printout from 
the Asia Pacific HRM Congress regarding the 2019 awards. The only additional evidence she 
provided was a copy of an edited post on her Linkedin page in which she quoted the invitation she 
received from the 18th Asia Pacific HRM Con ress. The uoted portion of the post indicates that she 
would be receivin the title of which the issuin or anization described 
as The organizer's 
invitation indicated that the bases of selection for this award include building a sustainable leadership 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 
(indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
pipeline in the organization, empowerment, social change, ability to influence and "building a 
successor in line and career path." 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit objective evidence establishing that her _________ Award" is a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for 
excellence in her field and therefore did not meet her burden to establish that it meets all requirements 
of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the evidence described above. In the appellate brief, counsel 
emphasizes that the website of the Asia Pacific HRM Congress states that its awards program 
recognizes the "Best of the Best." Counsel further states that "the number of awardees is limited to 
one in each category, but it is open to any institution in the Asia Pacific region," that "the award has 
great significance in the field," and that is "internationally recognized -in all Asia Pacific region." 
However, the record lacks objective evidence supporting these statements. Assertions of counsel do 
not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of 
Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in 
the record with independent evidence. 
While we acknowledge that the Asia Pacific HRM Congress is an international organization, this fact 
alone does not establish that its annual meeting issues awards that are nationally or internationally 
recognized in the Petitioner's field as awards for excellence. The record does not include evidence 
demonstrating the recognition associated with the award outside the issuing organization. Rather, the 
only information regarding the award was sourced from the organization's own website. The 
Petitioner did not offer supporting evidence, such as coverage of the award in professional or trade 
publications or other media or other evidence showing the award's recognition for excellence in the 
field. Finally, although requested by the Director, the record does not contain sufficient information 
and evidence regarding the entry and selection process and the criteria used to select award recipients. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she has been the recipient of an award 
that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must document their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.3 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she meets this criterion based on her membership in Young 
Presidents' Organization (YPO), her membership in the The Or anization of 
Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI), and her election and service as I I for the German Venezuelan Chamber of Industry and Commerce. The Director 
determined that she did not meet her burden to establish that any of these associations or organizations 
require outstanding achievements as a condition for membership or that such achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner's does not contest the Director's determination that she did not establish 
eligibility based on her participation in the of OPPI and her I 
position withl 4 Accordingly, we will limit our review to her claim that her membership in 
YPO meets all requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
With respect to her membership in YPO, the Petitioner submitted: 
• Letter from the Chapter Manager of YPO Mumbai Connect confirming the Petitioner's 
membership in this chapter, one of 15 in the South Asia Region 
• Screenshot of the Petitioner's membership profile page from the YPO Connect website 
• YPO membership criteria and application procedure from the organization's website 
(YPO.org) 
• Letter from _________ Grupo Maso, who states that he invited the Petitioner 
to join the YPO Venezuelan chapter in 2012 
According to the YPO website, the organization requires prospective members to establish that they: 
(1) possess a qualifying title within their company or division (managing director, president, or board 
chairperson); (2) supervise at least 50 employees; (3) meet YPO's age requirement (under age 45 at 
the time of application), and (4) work for a qualifying corporation. To establish employment with a 
qualifying corporation, applicants must establish that their employer meets threshold financial 
requirements (minimum gross turnover or assets). 
The YPO website indicates the foregoing criteria are the minimum requirements and that individual 
YPO chapters may have additional criteria. In addition, it states that "the application must be certified 
by an outside auditing firm or other approved independent third party." The third party must verify 
the applicant's job title, the number of employees supervised and their annual compensation, and the 
company sales/turnover. 
With respect to the application and review process, the YPO website indicates that applications are 
reviewed by a "YPO membership development manager" and forwarded to a local chapter for 
consideration if all quantitative criteria are met. It states that local chapters have their own processes 
for admitting members. With respect to applicants that meet the quantitative requirements, it states: 
4 We observe that although the Director stated that the Petitioner established her membership in OPPI and I I the 
record does not contain objective evidence demonstrating that either of these organizations admits individual members 
based on a review of their individual achievements. Rather, it appears that she held elected or appointed positions as the 
representative of a member company. For example, a letter from the Director General of OPPI states that the Petitioner 
was part of the executive committee while representing I I 
5 
Meeting the specific quantitative requirements does not automatically guarantee 
admittance into YPO. There are other important, less easily defined requirements that 
also need to be met. These are qualitative in nature and are at the discretion of the 
current chapter's executive committee. 
While the evidence submitted clearly states the organization-wide threshold quantitative requirements 
for YPO membership, the record does not contain evidence from either local chapter that admitted the 
Petitioner addressing any additional requirements, their local process for admitting members, or 
information as to how they make discretionary decisions based on undefined qualitative factors. The 
evidence does not establish that the stated quantitative requirements (pertaining to the applicant's age, 
job title, company's finances, and the number of personnel supervised), although confirmed by third­
party auditors, are subject to being judged by recognized experts in the field who make membership 
decisions. 
The evidence indicates that final decisions are made by local chapter executive committees, but the 
record does not demonstrate that such committee positions are held by recognized national or 
international experts in the Petitioner's field. 5 Nor does the record identify or document the 
discretionary qualitative factors these executive committees consider, such that we could determine 
whether "outstanding achievements," beyond the quantitative data collected on the application, are a 
condition for membership. 
The evidence submitted in support of this criterion must demonstrate that, as a condition of being 
granted membership in an association, the person was judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. We 
acknowledge that holding a senior executive position for a qualifying company relatively early in 
one's career is a significant professional achievement. However, but for the reasons discussed, the 
record does not establish that membership in YPO meets all elements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions 
to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation and evidence of 
her participation in panel discussion and events and webinars. The Director concluded, however, that 
while the record reflects that the Petitioner has made business contributions that impacted her 
employer, the evidence did not demonstrate that she had made business-related contributions that had 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner submits an excerpt from the YPO website which identifies the members of its _____ 
She states "approval of membership eligibility" is made by this Board and they are recognized expe1is in the field. 
However, as discussed above, the evidence submitted from the organization indicates that final decisions regarding 
membership are made by executive committees at the local chapter level, rather than the Board for the larger YPO 
organization. 
6 
a broader impact or influence, such that her contributions could be considered of major significance 
in the field. The Director emphasized that the letters were not supported by sufficient independent 
and objective evidence establishing the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the letters she submitted from "renowned people in the field" 
were supported with independent evidence that discusses her contributions, such as published articles 
and a book in which she was interviewed. She states that she was "the firstl I I I in the world of business" and was given this title because she "headed a comprehensive and 
transformational effort of applying I I to a large and complex commercial 
operation atl I' The Petitioner maintains that while this approach initially impacted her 
employer it "has gained global recognition" as evidenced by the submitted media coverage. 
In reviewing this criterion, we have considered the submitted letters, 6 published materials, the 
Petitioner's participation in panels and workshops in her field, her work on the I 
of OPPI, as well as her statement in support of the petition. For the reasons discussed below, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner's business-related contributions are of major significance 
in her field. 
In her statement, the Petitioner explained that in her last assignment withl I (frfrom 201 7 
to 2019) she "received the mandate to implement a transformational operating model and a new 
approach to business and leadership." She indicates that the new strategy was implemented within 
one year, served as "a benchmark for several other companies" and "had influenced other leaders in 
the healthcare sector in India and the world." The Petitioner also emphasized that during her tenure 
with OPPI, she "led the member companies to work together on a strategy that followed the principle 
of bringing social impact to the association strategy, focusing on results beyond ... selling our 
products, supporting the increase of access in Healthcare." In addition, the Petitioner emphasized that 
her efforts "to support the healthcare broader impact and a more humanized leadership" have resulted 
in invitations to participate in panel discussions and roundtables to discuss the future ofleadership and 
healthcare. 
The Petitioner's supporting evidence includes a letter from 
atl I who states he reported to her during her tenure with that company. He states 
that the Petitioner's " eo le centric leadership style infused excitement and optimism in each and 
every employee of and drove the organization to create a 2030 vision that centered around 
transforming healthcare in & care for every patient's life." He states that this "industry first" 
vision was "complemented with a detailed strategic roadmap, a patient centric operating model and a 
purpose driven organization culture."I !credits the Petitioner's "visionary and leadership 
centric leadership style" with yielding business growth, increased employee engagement scores, and 
the signing of several long-term MOUs focused on delivering broader healthcare impact with several 
government and large private organizations" which "set a defining trend in the industry." He further 
mentions that the Petitioner "regularly spoke at many industry conferences sharing her forward­
looking views on how corporates can deliver a much larger impact on society, purpose driven 
leadership, and building Quantum organizations." 
6 While we do not discuss every letter in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each one in evaluating whether 
the Petitioner established that she meets this criterion. 
7 
A letter froml I also a senior manager with I I discusses the Petitioner's work, 
notin that she "contributed significantly to the organization," and transformed it by bringing in 
developing a long-term vision, and building a strategy to achieve the vision. 
describes the Petitioner's operating model as "extremely futuristic as compared to the peer 
companies" and states that it "has been a benchmark for many who wish to transform their 
organizations." While she indicates that other teams within the I I organization 
requested that the Petitioner share her expertise, she does not provide examples of how the influence 
or impact of her work withl I extended outside the organization. 
The record supports that the Petitioner made business-related contributions tol lthat 
significantly impacted her employer. However, the record does not contain sufficient support for a 
determination that her work with I has been widely recognized outside the organization as 
a contribution that serves as "a defining trend in the industry" or as a "benchmark" for the industry at 
large. Further, while the record includes evidence that the Petitioner has been invited to participate in 
panel discussions and workshops to speak to her peers about her work withl I it does not 
contain evidence that these speaking engagements have already had a demonstrated impact or 
influence on other organizations or other business leaders in the field consistent with original 
contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from a rofessor at the University of a letter from a pro
and instructor at who co-authored the book 
stated that the authors interviewed 
the Petitioner as part of "a select group of business leaders who made a significant contribution to 
leadership in their organization and in society at large" for their book. I praises the 
Petitioner as a positive and inspirational leader, noting that she "motivated her team in to create 
a comprehensive vision to improve the quality and access to healthcare for millions of people." He 
does not offer specific support for his general claim that she has made significant contributions to 
"society at large," or indicate that the Petitioner's vision forl ]had already achieved an 
influence that extended beyond the company or had a demonstrable impact on the quality and access 
of healthcare in I The record includes an excerpt from thel Jchapter that 
discusses the Petitioner's work atl I The chapter explains the positive impact the Petitioner's 
purpose-driven, human-centered approach had on land supports a determination that she 
made business contributions to her employer that have earned her some recognition from those who 
study organizational leadership based on these principles. 
We have also considered letters that discuss the Petitioner's work with YPO and OPPI. Entrepreneur I I notes that the Petitioner has "actively brought speakers from her vast global network 
to mentor or share experiences with the Indian colleagues in YPO." He further indicates that the 
Petitioner has been invited to serve as a speaker and to run workshops for the YPO chapter 
"to share her professional experience on how to deliver results and increase productivity through more 
focus on I but he does not explain or point to evidence of how her experiences 
have been influential or impactfol in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from Grupo Maso and member of 
YPO's Board for the Latin American Region. He states that during her time as a YPO member in 
Latin America, the Petitioner "was an inspiration for her work as a remarkable leader in the 
8 
Pharmaceutical industry during very complex times in Venezuela." He states that she created "an 
extraordinary leadership model that would later become a global benchmark for I I 
praises the Petitioner's talents, notes her participation as a speaker at YPO conferences and events, 
and asserts that "YPO Venezuela, and Venezuela in general, are better today thanks to the 
contributions [the Petitioner] made during her journey in Venezuela." However I does not 
identify a specific contribution that had an impact on "Venezuela in general," or otherwise explain 
how her work with either I or with YPO in Latin America is recognized as a majorly significant 
contribution to the field of business or organizational leadership. 
A letter from OPPI's I I confirms that as part of the organization'sl,__ __ 
___ from 2018 to 2019, the Petitioner "participated in industry-led patient advocacy and 
actively engaged with the Government oflndia in addressing the healthcare challenges of the country." 
Thel I also confirms the Petitioner's previous role as I the OPPII I 
I noting she was "instrumental in creating a value-based healthcare mission for the 
Group," and "responsible to drive 30 of the OPPI member companies and bring them together to work 
towards the collective and shared vision of providing better patient outcomes with the most sustainable 
costs." He credits the Petitioner with "helping to reinforce the knowledge and thought leadership for 
OPPI in India" but does not address how her effective leadership of one of the association's 
workgroups over a one-year period resulted in contributions that have significantly impacted or 
influenced the pharmaceutical or healthcare industry or other companies in the industry. 
Letters from experts in the field that specifically articulate how an individual's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 Here, the letters do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact that the Petitioner's work has 
had in the overall field. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that media coverage regarding her lrole withl I 
_ demonstrates her impact on the industry. 8 The Petitioner's evidence included online articles 
published by Forbes.com, Dialogue, and the website of These articles are 
very similar in content and all three were authored b 
who the Petitioner identifies as one of her mentors. In the articles, ___ explains how 
the Petitioner adaptedl J mission to the unique challenges faced by 
I I noting that her role as _______ "has been transformative" for the company 
by reshaping its rewards framework, replacing traditional pharmaceutical sales metrics with self-
selected atient-im act tar ets and connectin everything to ______ In the article 
writes that "[i t is crucial that companies that want to 
follow lead do so wholly by granting the _______ to lead and change from the 
heart of the business." The articles indicate that the Petitioner's leadership style and transformation 
efforts atl l were highly effective and may serve as a useful example to other organizations. 
They also discuss the novelty of the _______ job title, noting that other organizations 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
8 While we have focused our discussion on articles that discuss the Petitioner'sl I role withl I 
we have reviewed all submitted articles. Other articles include an article regarding the Petitioner being assigned to ____ an article regarding her departure, and articles which discuss I pharmaceutical products. 
9 
may benefit from assigning such roles to senior leaders to recognize the value of ____ 
leadership. However, the published materials in the record do not state, and the record does not 
establish, that the Petitioner's I I leadership style or the novel business strategies she 
implemented at I have already had a significant impact on other organizations in the field. 
For all the reasons stated above, upon review we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 9 
As noted, the record establishes that the Petitioner recently held the position of 
and Managing Director of I and that she was the senior executive 
assigned to that entity.10 The Petitioner has submitted company information for both the I 
and itsl I subsidiary in support of her claim that the company has a distinguished reputation as a 
leading pharmaceutical company worldwide, and as the leading provider of cancer therapeutics in 
I I 
In determining that the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion, the Director noted, in 
part, that the letters she provided from her employer "did not demonstrate how the [petitioner's] role 
impacted or influenced the regional and national business industry in I ... as a whole." Based 
on this statement, it appears that the Director incorrectly applied a standard applicable to the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As noted above, a title, with matching duties, can support a determination 
that a role was "leading"; this criterion does not require a petitioner to demonstrate that their role 
impacted the industry. The Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence documenting her job title and 
duties to establish that she met this requirement as a managing director assigned tol I 
Further, we disagree with the Director's determination that the record "does not contain information 
about any awards, recognition or achievements garnered by the organization" that would demonstrate 
its distinguished reputation. The Petitioner submitted media reports s and evidence of industry awards 
sufficient to establish that the organization, including the subsidiary, enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. 
After reviewing all the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner met her burden to establish that she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on her most recent position as a senior 
executive with the Roche group of companies. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Merriam-Webster's online dictionary 
defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person"), 
10 The record contains evidence that the Petitioner's employment contract's with the I I and that she accepted an international assignment with 
10 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field. The burden is on the petitioner to provide 
appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or 
position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different countries should be 
evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply 
converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high 
in the United States. 11 
The Director determined that the Petitioner "submitted copies of compensation reports in a foreign 
language which are not accompanied by English language translations," and stated that such 
documents would not be considered. The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence of objective earnings data sufficient to establish that she has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in relation to other similarly employed workers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that the previously submitted 
evidence included English-language evidence demonstrating her past earnings. We agree that the 
Petitioner sufficiently documented her remuneration withl A letter from I I I Human Resources indicated that the Petitioner earned a base salary of CHF 364,332 in 
2019. This letter was accompanied by English-language compensation statements and other 
documentary evidence of her earnings in the period between 2017 and 2019. Although the evidence 
included Venezuelan tax returns that were not accompanied by English translations, the record 
includes other relevant, probative evidence of the Petitioner's past remuneration. 
The record before the Director, however, did not include relevant comparative data to support the 
Petitioner's claim that she commanded a high salary, or significantly high remuneration, in relation to 
others. As noted, persons working outside the United States should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in the country of employment, rather than converting their salary to 
U.S. dollars and submitting comparative U.S. wage data. Here, the Petitioner's salary was provided 
in Swiss francs, and she worked in both Venezuela and India during the period for which 
documentation of her earnings was provided. Rather than converting her salary to Venezuelan and/or 
Indian currency and providing compensation data from one or both of those countries, she converted 
it to U.S. dollars and provided data reflecting U.S. salaries for executives from online sources 
including Study.com and PayScale. For this reason, we agree with the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner did not provide relevant comparative wage statistics to support her claim that she has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner submits additional evidence on appeal. We note that this criterion was addressed in the 
Director's RFE and the Petitioner had an opportunity to submit supplemental evidence, including 
"geographical or position appropriate compensation surveys," prior to the denial. Where, as here, a 
Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
11 
appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). 12 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence did not 
establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation"). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
12 The record on appeal includes the Petitioner's Indian Income Tax Return for Assessment Year 2019-20 which shows 
her annual earnings from _________ The "gross salary" figure reported is INR80,674,391, of which 
TNR37,273,83 l was paid in salary (with the remainder categorized as "value of perquisites"). The Petitioner also provides 
comparative wage data for CEO salaries for India from three online sources and notes in her brief that one of those sources 
(PayScale) indicates that the "average salary for a CEO in India" is TNR35,947,500. We observe that the Petitioner's base 
salary, as reported on her tax return, is only slightly above this reported average salary and the evidence, even if submitted 
prior to the denial of the petition, is not sufficient to establish that she earns a "high salary" in relation to others in her field. 
Although she provided evidence of her total remuneration, the record does not contain evidence that would allow a 
comparison of her total remuneration with that of others working in the same type of position in India and therefore does 
not support a determination that her total remuneration is "significantly high." 
12 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 17, 2024 In Re: 31284783 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a bioinformatics researcher who seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Master's of Science in Physics and a PhD in biology majoring biophysics. 
Following two postdoctoral fellowships, he currently serves as a U.S. government contractor and 
subject matter expert employed through a contract with a biomedical information technology services 
company. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner fully presented his claims relating to his prizes or awards and memberships before the 
Director, but within the appeal, he only makes a passing reference to his eligibility under those criteria 
utilizing one sentence for each criterion. But more importantly, he does not explain how the Director 
erred or how his evidence satisfies all of the regulatory requirements. The two criteria at issue here 
relate to his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), and his membership in associations regulated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Based on the Petitioner's limited response to the Director's adverse determination under each criterion, 
he has waived both of these issues in this appeal. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and finding when a filing party 
mentions an issue without developing an argument, the issue is deemed waived). "A party waives an 
argument by failing to present it in its opening brief or by failing to develop [its] argument-even if 
[its] brieftakes a passing shot at the issue." Grayson O Co. v. Agadir Int'! LLC, 856 F.3d 307,316 
( 4th Cir. 2017) ( alterations in original). 
Turning to the Petitioner's appellate arguments relating to his original scientific, scholarly, artistic, 
athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), he refers to his patent awards and one letter discussing one of the four U.S. or 
international patents in which he is named as a co-inventor. Before the Director, the Petitioner did not 
offer his patents as evidence for the Director to consider as an original contribution of major 
significance. Instead, he presented them under the awards criterion within the initial filing, or under 
the leading or critical role criterion in his response to the Director's request for evidence. He cannot 
2 
now assert a never before presented claim in the appeal. New assertions advanced for the first time to 
an administrative appellate body are not properly before us; and this includes previously submitted 
evidence under a new criterion. Matter ofM-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021) (refusing to 
consider an appellant's humanitarian claims that were presented for the first time on appeal). We will 
therefore not consider his patent claims under this criterion here. As this was the Petitioner's only claim 
under the contributions criterion on appeal, he has not demonstrated that his evidence meets this 
criterion's requirements. 
Next, regarding the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), he provided several of his 
articles published in professional publications. But, the Director determined that he did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. Instead of evaluating whether the publications were professional in 
nature, the Director focused on the lack of circulation statistics about the journals. Publications in 
professionally-relevant peer-reviewed journals satisfies this criterion's requirements. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.1, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
As a result, we conclude the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion's requirements and we withdraw the 
Director's determination to the contrary. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner satisfies the scholarly articles criterion, he does not meet the 
criteria regarding prizes or awards, membership, or original contributions of major significance. 
While he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to his 
performance in a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), it is unnecessary that we make 
a decision on this additional ground because he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria. 
As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve the remaining issue. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328, 332 (2022) (citing INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); see also Matter ofChen, 
28 I&N Dec. 676, 677 n.1, 678 (BIA 2023) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). It is also unnecessary that we provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 17, 2024 In Re: 31049892 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a dance instructor who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dance instructor who intends to open her own business in the United States to 
continue in that effort. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met four ofthe regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criterion relating to judging, but that she 
had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or awards, published material, or under a leading 
or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meet the evidentiary criteria relating to 
prizes or awards, published material. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the 
Petitioner does not qualify for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility under this criterion, and in response to the Director's 
request for evidence she presented claims relating to two organizations. The Director noted her 
performance for these organizations occurred after she filed the petition, which they would not 
consider in this petition as she must demonstrate she was eligible on the date she filed the petition. 
The Petitioner must establish that she has satisfied all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit from the date she filed the petition continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
USCIS may not approve a visa petition if the Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but 
expects to become eligible at a subsequent time. See Matter ofIzwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175-76 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). These claims 
will not be factored into the proceedings associated with this particular petition. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
The Petitioner provided articles from three sources before the Director. The Director discussed one 
publication and determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. On 
appeal, the Petitioner points to the two articles the Director did not discuss and claims those adequately 
support her eligibility under this criterion. 
But we do not agree. Even though the articles might be about her and relating to her work in the field, 
she provided inadequate supporting materials to demonstrate the publications are one of the required 
publication types. The Director addressed the Petitioner's claims and evidence pertaining to Jamaica 
Star and them found inadequate and she does not contest that determination on appeal. Considering 
the material relating to The Gleaner, the Petitioner's supporting evidence she offers on appeal relating 
to this media derives from Wikipedia. With regard to information from Wikipedia, there are no 
assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site. 1 See United 
States v. Lawson, 677 F .3d 629, 650-51 ( 4th Cir. 2012); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F .3d 909, 910-11 
(8th Cir. 2008); see also Sibanda v. Holder, 778 F.3d 676, 680 (7th Cir. 2015). 
The material from the Jamaica Observer suffers from a similar shortcoming. The Petitioner provides 
two forms of evidence relating to this publication and the first material is again from Wikipedia. We 
already explained why material from that resource is not reliable and does not meet the Petitioner's 
burden of proof. 
The other documentation for this publication is the Jamaica Observer's Facebook page that contains 
the text: "Jamaica's No. 1 Newspaper" but does not offer any additional information in support of 
that statement. When USCIS evaluates whether a submitted publication is other major media, relevant 
factors include the relative circulation, readership, or viewership that should be compared to other 
similar statistics. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.l, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The phrase "other major media" is generally accepted to mean a publication with significant reach and 
recognition, and it follows that we may reasonably require evidence of the same type of reach and 
recognition through circulation data. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D. N.J. 2021). 
We are also not required to accept a publication's own claims relating to whether it qualifies as major 
media, as such self-serving claims are not sufficiently probative. Id. (citations omitted). Probative 
evidence is the type that "must tend to prove or disprove an issue that is material to the determination 
of the case." Matter ofE-F-N-, 28 I&N Dec. 591, 593 (BIA 2022) (quoting Matter ofRuzku, 26 I&N 
Dec. 731, 733 (BIA 2016) ); see also Evidence, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019). Therefore, if 
some form of the Petitioner's evidence does not adequately prove their contention, then it is not 
probative. When combined with other favorable material, evidence that is not probative on its own 
1 Online content from Wikipedia is subject to the following general disclaimer, "WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE 
OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of 
individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows 
anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been 
reviewed by people with the expe11ise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information. . . . 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article may recently have 
been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the 
relevant fields. Wikipedia: General disclaimer, Wikipedia (Apr. 6, 2024), 
http://en.wikipedia. org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_ disclaimer. 
3 
could exist on a palette in which the Petitioner "paints a mosaic" that sufficiently demonstrates the 
Petitioner's claims. However, the Petitioner has not crafted such a tapestry here. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the regulation's requirements 
relating to other major media. 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to 
prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), it is unnecessary that we make a decision on this 
additional ground because she cannot numerically meet the required number of at least three 
criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of her claims under the prizes or awards criterion. 
Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328, 332 (2022) (citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) 
(finding agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary 
to the ultimate decision)); see also Matter of Chen, 28 I&N Dec. 676, 677 n.l, 678 (BIA 2023) 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-R-A-H-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a culinary chef and gastronomic consultant, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, and a subsequent motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director stated that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he will continue to work in his field in the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria and that he seeks to continue working in the culinary field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the leading or 
critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
also meets the awards, membership, judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(vi), respectively. Upon review, we conclude that the record does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented a certificate from the I I I stating that he received a I I as ,__ ___ ____,,==--------' 
I I The record also includes two Face book hoto ra hs dated 02011 and an 
OctoberD YouTube video1 relatin to award ceremonies. In 
addition, the Petitioner provided a,__ __ ~2016 article from Sunoticiero.com about a Venezuelan 
1 The information provided indicates that this YouTube video had "389 views." 
2 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
I award. He also submitted a ..... 1 ---.----' I This article is foreign student recruiter who received a I 
2015 article from Nuestragaita.com, entitled 'I 
about the song 1 I' and its songwriter and cr..=e-=at~o;;.;:r....:'s~re::..:c::..::e:.:Jit:..:t::....o::::.cf::....·..:;:th;:;.:e:....!=:=========-=a::;.;w~a=r~d:..:....,. 
With regard to that award, the article indicates that .__-------.---;:::::============:::;-' I 1"2 The article farther s;.;.ta=t:..::e.:::..:s:~'-"....::T:..::;h:.======:::::z:;--~-----' 
the highest award of the people of1 !proclaims the.__ _________ _. ... for the song I I of the composer I I considering as the hymn of the Venezuelans,' which was 
published by I I' We note that the 
aforementioned articles and Facebook and YouTube material do not mention the Petitioner's receipt 
of a.__ ______ ____. as '.__ ____________________ __, 
While the Petitioner has offered documentation from Facebook, Y ouTube, Sunoticiero.com, and 
Nuestragaita.com, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that his I laward is 
a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. For example, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the Sunoticiero.com and Nuestragaita.com coverage or Facebook and 
Y ouTube material are indicative of the I I award' s national or international 
recognition in the culinary field. He has not established therefore that he meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that his membership in the .__ _____________ ...v meets this 
criterion. On motion to the Director, he provided information about ~ and his membership 
certificate showing a "paid thru date" of August 31, 2019. The record, however, does not show that 
the Petitioner was a member of~ at the time the Form 1-140 was filed on April 25, 2018. Eligibility 
must be established at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.RJ1.Q,2.2(b)(l). Regardless, the information and 
evidence he presented does not demonstrate thatL_Jrequires outstanding achievements of its 
members or that their achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains news articles, advertisements for the Petitioner's cooking course, and his recipes 
in publications such as La Verdad and El Venezolano de Panama. The Petitioner, however, has not 
presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that these publications' readership 
elevates them to major media relative to other publications. Furthermore, regarding the advertisements 
for his cooking course, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that "published material" as referenced in 
.:c=) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. 
3 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
the regulation includes this type of promotional material. 3 Nor has the Petitioner shown that the 
articles including only his recipes constitute published material about him. This regulatory criterion 
requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about him do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Finally, the record does not show that any 
of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were about the Petitioner and in major media. For 
the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
For this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled' I I" This article announcing the aforementi~o-n-ed_c_o_n-te_s_t_r-eq_u_e_s-ts-re_a_d_e_r_s -to-s-en-d-in~ 
their recipes for evaluation by a jury of five rofessionals that includes the Petitioner. In addition, he 
submitted a second article, entitled ' ~-,---,------------,----,-------,-----,-----,---,--.....,.,-,------,-~ ~-----~ which informs readers that "[ n ]ext Wednesday, October 11 is the deadline for 
reception of recipes from the public." 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. 4 The aforementioned articles that pre-date the judging process are not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner later served as part of the jury for the I I 
contest. Here, the Petitioner did not submit, for example, evidence from I I staff or a 
follow-up article confirming his participation in selecting the finalists and winners who entered the 
recipe contest. The Petitioner therefore has not sufficiently demonstrated that he satisfies this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted his book, entitled ~--------~ I I and various letters of support discussing his work as a chef and culinary instructor. The 
Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons 
discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the petitioner). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that .__ ____________ ___,was "used in the promotion 
and distribution of kitchen ware at a national and international level." He farther contends that I lis a major producer of kitchen cookware and would have chosen a chef of great renown 
in order to effectively promote its products among Latin American consumers and other users of I I products." 
The record includes excerpts from~------------~' including a biography page 
listing the Petitioner's educational training and accomplishments as a chef In addition, he presents a 
January 2018 letter froml la legal representative forl , I stating that 
the Petitioner served "as chef advisor and creator of our recipe book ... in the year 2008. He also 
gave us cooking courses and demonstrations for our promoters and clients, and he was gastronomic 
consultant as well."5 The Petitioner also submits information about~-----~ (manufacturer 
of thel lbrand name) and~--------~( a commercial kitchen equipment 
service company) from their websites. The aforementioned evidence, however, is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that his book rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the culinary field. 
For instance, the record does not show that the Petitioner's book has widely influenced others in the 
culinary industry, that his collection of recipes in the book are highly renowned by recognized food 
critics, or that his original work otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
As farther evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner points to letters for support from two government 
officials discussing his development of an "innovative teaching concept." However, as discussed 
below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, I I Member of Congress.__ _______ __. Illinois, stated that the 
Petitioner "envisions an academy to donate his time to educate and teach future chefs from all over 
the country. I had the opportunity to observe many of his presentations and you can feel the passion 
and time he puts into it." 
Likewise, I I Alderman for I O I Ward, asserted that the Petitioner has 
"designed a powerful project that would bring benefits to the residents" of her ward through adding 
jobs and educating people in the culinary arts. She farther explained: 'The cafe-concert project is 
based on an affordable school of culinary arts training where students can develop skills and reinforce 
their knowledge including implementing their own internship on-site. The concept ... will include 
content knowledge on catering services, gastronomic advising, and at-the-table-etiquette." While D 
I I claimed that that the Petitioner has "implemented the concept at the international level before 
arriving in the United States," the record does not show that his concept has widely influenced the 
field beyond the programs where he taught or has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major 
significance in the field. The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original 
51 I does not provide any sales information for the Petitioner's book or offer specific examples of its impact in 
the culinary field. 
5 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting his students. See 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the 
field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As discussed, the Petitioner provided his recipe book, entitled.__ ____________ _, The 
record, however, does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this work constitutes a 
scholarly article in a professional or major trade publication or form of major media. 6 Based on the 
foregoing, he has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated his eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that he meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner asserted that he has performed m a leading or critical role for I I ~, 1 I .--I -~1-1 -------1 
I ll I, I I, J I, the Embassy 
of the I I in Panama, and the I I Consulate in I I If a leading role, 
then evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 8 In addition, this 
criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 9 
The record includes letters of support from the above organizations discussing the Petitµ· """'"""........,_....,_,__,""'"""'-1_0 ~ 
For example, I ,I Manager of Food and Beverages and Banquets r=-fo=r'--t=h=e--,-r=========r' I I indicated that he previously supervised the Petitioner's work at 
stated that the Petitioner was in charge ofl 6 Peruvian, Thai, French,~M_e_x-ic--a~n, and Italian 
Gastronomic Festivals and that he "taught training courses to the kitchen staff" In addition.I I 
6 A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating 
profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 9. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Id at 10-11. 
10 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
.___-,}I Food and Beverage Assistant, I I asserted that the Petitioner "hosted gastronomic 
festivals like: Gastronomic and Cultural Peruvian Festival, Asian Gastronomic Festival, French 
Gastronomic Festival" and trained the general kitchen staff in food preparation. This evidence, 
however, does not show that the Petitioner's role hosting the aforementioned festivals reflects his 
leading or critical role forl bverall. For instance, the letters from~---------~ 
did not contain detailed and probative information that specifically addressed how the Petitioner's role 
as a guest chef for various festivals was leading or critical for the organization. Moreover, their letters 
did not explain how the Petitioner's temporary role was leading compared to the hotel's full-time staff 
positons such as its executive chef or manager, nor did their statements indicate that the Petitioner's 
festival work was of significant importance for I l success or standing in the industry so as to 
demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, while the record contains information about I I from 
the website ofc=] the company that owns the hotel, this documentation is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the hotel has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
In addition, the Petitioner presented a May 2010 certificate of recognition from the Embassy of the 
in Panama for "his artici ation in different t pes of barbeque preparing, during 
the , erformed inl I." 
He also provided a letter from the.__ ___ _,Consulate in ,___ _ ___,thanking him for the food he 
'jrepard to be served at three cultural events displaling and discussing! t' 
i 2018. These cultural events for the !Consulate, however, post-dated the filing of the 
petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nonetheless, while the submitted documentation shows that the 
Petitioner prepared food for various dillomatic events, it does not demonstrate that he performed in a 
leading or critical role for either the _ I Embassy or the I I Consulate. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that his role was leading among these organizations' staff or that he 
contributed in an important way to the organizations' overall success or standing. Further, although 
the Petitioner offered information about the Embassy of the I I in Panama from 
EmbassyPages.com, these "Facts About the Embassy" are not sufficient to demonstrate it has a 
distinguished reputation. Moreover, the record does not include supporting evidence indicating that 
thd I Consulate inl lhas garnered a distinguished reputation. 
Finally. with rerrd to the PetitT°er' s wrn:lk for I I I I, I I D I _I L JI landl I 
the information in the letters from these organizations is not sufficient to demonstrate that his culinary 
and instructional duties were leading or critical to the overall organizations, nor has he adequately 
demonstrated their distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he meets this criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Continuing Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability11 
The Petitioner presented a personal statement detailing his plans for work in the United States. He 
stated that he intends to cater civil and social events for foreign consulates id I open his own 
11 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
7 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
restaurant, and develop his cafe-concert project involving an affordable school of culinary arts 
training. In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter from the I I Consulate in I I 
expressing interest in having him work with their staff "in the catering of our important social and 
civic events." Furthermore, with respect to his cafe-concert project, the record includes a letter from I I professor atl I University, asserting that she plans to partner 
with the Petitioner on that project. She further indicated: "I believe that I I. . would benefit 
with having a cafe-concert in which education and cooking are the basis of success and community 
empowerment." We find the aforementioned information and evidence sufficient to demonstrate that 
the Petitioner seeks to continue work in his area of expertise in the United States pursuant to the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Accordingly, the Director's determination on this issue is 
withdrawn. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of his work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
8 
Matter of C-R-A-H-
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-R-A-H-, ID# 3524020 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-S-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an industrial engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of a third criterion in addition to the 
two that the Director determined he meets. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-S-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed by~------------- as a principal engineer. 
The Director found that he met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating 
to the authorship of scholarly articles and a high salary. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the evidentiary criteria relating to a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet the requisite three 
evidentiary criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's patent, as well as several reference letters 
from experts in his field, but concluded that the evidence established only that he is a productive 
member of his research team. The Petitioner does not challenge this conclusion, and we agree that the 
evidence does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner authored two scholarly articles which were published in 
the journal Quality Engineering, and we therefore find that he meets this criterion. 
2 
Matter of S-S-L-
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We first note that the Petitioner correctly indicates in his appeal brief that this criterion requires two 
determinations; whether the foreign national has played a leading or critical role, and whether the 
organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation. The evidence is sufficient to establish 
the distinguished reputation ofl I 
In his analysis of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Director found that the 
Petitioner's role was not critical to an entire organization or establishment such that he was responsible 
for its success or standing. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that this is not the appropriate standard 
for this criterion, and refers to Chapter 22.2(i)(l)(A) of the USCIS Adjudicator's Field Manual, which 
states that a foreign national plays a critical role when he or she "has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities." 
The evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's critical role fore=] consists of reference letters 
written by the Petitioner's current and former supervisors. These authors explain his work on D s 
Advanced Process Control (APC) team, which is responsible for implementing controls in the 
company's manufacturing processes to ensure quaµ.tY....anq consistency.~----~Vice President 
and General Manager of Wafer Operations at L_J states that within the APC team at the 
manufacturing facility where he's employed, the Petitioner is the only industrial engineer, and that he 
has developed his expertise in the more than ten years of employment with the company and "become 
a critical member of the APC team." I ~es on to describe several projects that the Petitioner 
has been involved with while employed bYL__J including leading the development of an "internal 
R2R control solution" that "has been deployed on more than 20 process tools in the 6" wafer line," 
and developing and delivering APC training to engineers and technicians, including those in Japan 
and the Philippines. I I writes that he was the Petitioner's colleague and manager for 
several years, and verifies his role in developing, testing and deployment of the APC solution 
mentioned b~ l as well as development and delivery of associated training forD engineers. 
In addition, a letter fro~ I who like I I is a retired former supervisor of 
the Petitioner, describes him as a "skilled and proficient practitioner of run-to-run process control and 
system modelling." I I explains that the Petitioner developed an algorithm that was 
implemented into a specific manufacturing process and "yielded increased process capability," also 
resulting in a patent. He concludes by noting that the Petitioner "has taken a lead role in implementing 
R2R a variety of different semiconductor manufacturing processes" and has spread the use of R2R 
withinl !through his training classes. 
These letters reveal that the Petitioner has made contributions tol I beyond the scope of his team 
and the facility where he is employed, but they do not sufficiently establish the importance of those 
contributions tol ts overall activities I I indicates that an introductory training course 
developed by the Petitioner has been delivered to over 40 new engineers and technicians. However, 
the impact of this training, and other more advanced classes developed by the Petitioner, on the 
company's APC teams and overall activities is not explained. Further,1 I mentions that the 
Petitioner's R2R solution has been applied to manufacturing processes for one product, but the 
3 
Matter of S-S-L-
importance of this contribution to that product and I ~ s overall portfolio of products is not 
demonstrated. He also notes that the Petitioner's experience will be valuable in applying R2R 
techniques td i's newly acquired solid state and flash drive manufacturing business, but does not 
suggest that he has already made an important contribution in this regard. Similarly, while the 
evidence shows that the Petitioner has recently performed and presented research on the 
implementation of machine learning to R2R techniques, which I I notes "will be a 
revolutionary change in manufactlrng," lthe evidence does not establish that this research has already 
made an important contribution to s activities. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his current salary and his total remuneration, as well as 
information from the Office of Foreign Labor Certification's Online Data Center and public sources, 
which verifies his salary and demonstrates that it is high compared to others in his field. Accordingly, 
we find that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of acclaim and standing in his field required for the classification 
sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-S-L-, ID# 3522701 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 18, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dance instructor and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief: arguing that she satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-E-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dance instructor and choreographer who has taught at several dance studios and 
centers in the United States and Australia. Because she has not indicated or established that she has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner participated as a judge at the 2015 I IN ational 
Talent Competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging 
criterion. However, for the reasons discussed later in this decision, we do not concur with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner demonstrated that she satisfied the lesser awards criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter of S-E-A-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. Specifically, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility for this criterion based on the receipt of awards won by her students, as well as awards 
,..lli!.SIJ~M..illtilllL.,(lja.lli::..e....:Sill~ios and centers. For instance, I I CEO and presidr'--e""n=t_o;;..cf'-'----.....J 
, stated that two of the Petitioner's students won "Aurst=r=al=i=a....a'saL..---,..-----' 
ir----,,_f_r_o_m_h___,,.------1N i n 1 D n hamr,iaosbiosl ~ Moreover,.__ ____ _. general 
manager of.__ __________ __,, and I ) assistant general manager for ~ 
listed awards won by the Petitioner's company,'------~----' from 2007 to 2013, including 
"Group Aggregate 13 years and over," "Best Tapping Group," and "Grand Champion Solo 
performer." Further, I I co-founder and director of the I I 
Performing Arts Center, indicated that the Petitioner "has improved the level of technique within our 
school greatly with her extraordinary teaching methods to go on and win the 'Technique Award' at 
the I IN ational Talent Competition I I' and "routines she has choreographed have led 
our students win National Titles in Contemporary and Jazz last July at thel I National Finals 
held inl ~" In addition, the record contains numerous photographs of plaques displaying 
events and categories but not showing the recipients. 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to receive prizes or awards. 2 Moreover, the description 
of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of 
the prizes or awards, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the prizes or awards. 3 Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that she received the claimed awards. Rather, the record shows awards 
bestowed upon her students or dance studios; the awarding entities did not name the Petitioner as a 
recipient of the awards. 
In addition, this criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 4 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations of competitors. 5 
Although the Petitioner's evidence makes references to the competitions and events, the 
documentation does not demonstrate that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field. For example, regarding thel I the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
Matter of S-E-A-
Petitioner submitted screenshots froml [com reporting <;rn the 2016 event without showing 
the recognition of the awards in the field. Further, as it relates tol._ ______ __.bffered a brief 
description of the competition but did not provide any detailed information showing the national or 
international recognition of thec=]awards. Moreover, while an unidentified screenshot claimed that 
c=]is Australia's "largest competition of its kind,"I I asserted that the I !National 
Championship is also "Australia's largest and most prestigious dance competition." Regardless, 
neither the screenshot norl ~ letter contains material explaining the national or international 
significance of the0awards. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that thel I awards, 
as well as awards from the I I National Competition, ~-------~ 
Conventions and Competitions, and thd I., are viewed by the field as nationally 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her evidence fulfills the regulatory requirements, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's choreographed work was displayed at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases. Accordingly, the Petitioner has shown that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on her roles with the I I II I and~------~ ._A_s_i_t -re-la-te-s-to____.a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 6 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 7 Moreover, this regulatory criterion requires the role to be for organizations or establishments 
that have a distinguished reputation. 8 
As it pertains to~ the Petitioner did not initially indicate any employment or role with the dance 
company. 9 However, in response to the director's request for evidence, she submitted a letter from I lwho indicated thatc=Jrecently hired her for the role of director in 2017 and had 
subsequently selected the Petitioner as a coach and choreographer for the December 2017"""1 =~~ 
Dance Championships in I I In addition, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from c=Js 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona,y definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
9 The Petitioner made no claims of employment or roles withe=] in her cover letter, resume, or any of the submitted 
documentation at the initial filing of the petition on August 25, 2017. 
4 
Matter of S-E-A-
website reflecting that the dance company was founded in 2017. Further, the Petitioner submitted a 
screenshot, dated November 28, 2017, froml I announcing! I as the director and 
head coach and the hiring of the Petitioner. On appeal, the Petitioner offers a "Summary of Oral 
Agreement," dated October 29, 2018, regarding the terms of the Petitioner's employment from 
October 201 7 -December 2025. Here, the documentation relates to events occurring after the filing 
of the petition, and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she performed in a role with Dprior to 
the filing of her petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding□ the Petitioner references a letter from I I founder and director of the musical 
theatre course for0 atl I University, who stated that the Petitioner "was selected to design and 
teach the dance program for the only Bachelor of Musical Theatre course of its kind in Australia," and 
"[a]s a founding member of the course, [the Petitioner] paved the way to success for many of our 
students." While I !discussed his reasoning for selecting the Petitioner to start-up a course, 
he did not explain how the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical to Ooverall.10 Moreover, I I did not demonstrate how ldesigling and teaching a co~ that the Petitioner held a 
leadership position or contributed to successes as a whole; L___J indicated the Petitioner's 
impact to the musical theatre course rather thaQin general. 
As it relates to D the record reflects that the Petitioner performed in a leading role as she founded 
and owned the dance company. However, the Petitioner did not establish that D enjoys a 
distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. Although the Petitioner argues that 
c=}; students won several awards, as discussed under the awards criterion, she did not demonstrate 
how the awards showOs distinguished reputation. For instance, the Petitioner did not explain the 
significance of the students receiving the awards toD or how the quality or quantity of the awards 
compared to other dance companies. Moreover, the Petitioner references the letter froml I 
who claimed thar9'was attracting dancers from all over Australia to train," and a letter from the 
current owner of _ l, who opined thatO'is still one of the most prestigious performing 
arts schools in the country." However, the letters do not provide specific, detailed explanations to 
support their assertions. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot froml I and 
the above-mentioned screenshot from I lwhich mentioned that is "a leading Performing 
Arts Center in Australia" and "a leading performing arts center on the.__ ___ _, of Australia." 
Again, the articles do not justify their statements fore=] "leading" reputation. Further, the Petitioner 
did not show that two screenshots represent sufficient evidence of Os reputation in the field 
compared to, for example, widespread coverage of the dance company in major media. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
Matter of S-E-A-
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
6 
Matter of S-E-A-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-E-A-, ID# 3497197 (AAO June 18, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 18, 2024 InRe: 31286116 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer (football) player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification but did not establish, as required, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former professional football player who has played with the I_______ 
as well as multi le first division football clubs in Chile, Ar entina, and S ain. 1 He played in the 2014 
During his career 
he has played on teams winning the 2012/2013 and 2015/2016), thel I 
(2015), thel 1(2015), and the (2011). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationall y 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet four of these criteria, and the Director agreed. Specifically , the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published materials in major 
media, and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (ii), (iii), and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements , the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner' s accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstr ate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
As noted above, in a final merits determination, the Director looks at whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner retired from professional football in 2023. 
2 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the record, as a whole, did not establish that the Petitioner garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. The Director noted that the majority of the Petitioner's evidence of 
national or international acclaim focused on his career from 2011 to 2015, but he did not show that 
this acclaim was sustained. The Director further noted that the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner consistently received major media coverage commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim, outside of his achievements from 2011 to 2015, or that the media coverage he 
received from 2011 to 2015 "reflects a 'career of acclaimed work in the field."' 
In determining whether a petitioner has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim, we 
consider that such acclaim must be maintained. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(l) , (stating that 
such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionary definition of "sustain" is "to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in making (an effort) over a 
long period of time"). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director conducted "an overly subjective analysis with 
inconsistent conclusions," and disregarded evidence. Specifically, the Petitioner states that the 
Director disregarded evidence of his receipt of the 20121 Iaward from the Chilean Football 
Federation, his membership in the Chilean Football Federation and on the _______ and 
his leadership role with the and two other first division teams. The Petitioner 
asserts that the Director's focus on "consistency of media coverage" was incorrect because "sustained 
media coverage does not necessarily equate to continuous coverage but rather reflects the ongoing 
interest and recognition garnered during key milestones." In support of his claim to be at the "very 
top of the field," the Petitioner submits additional recommendation and support letters, and a document 
titled "Work Model: Soccer for Everyone." 
The Petitioner first asserts that the Director did not consider his membership in the Chilean Football 
Federation or on the _______ as evidence of his outstanding achievements. However, 
the Director specifically mentioned the Petitioner's membership on thel Iin 
several places. She concluded that he had established membership in an association which requires 
outstanding achievements, and that he performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with 
a distinguished reputation. She also considered this membership in her final merits determination 
analysis. 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was a member of the Chilean Football Federation for 
various periods from July 1999 to November 2022, based on his role as a football player for first 
division teams. However, the record does not include information about the criteria for membership 
to support that this demonstrates the Petitioner's sustained acclaim. The record does not demonstrate 
that membership in the Chilean Football Federation is based on an outstanding achievement beyond 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
being a player for a Chilean football club. Nor does it demonstrate that membership requires sustained 
acclaim over any period of time. 
The Petitioner references a letter from ___________ of the Chilean Football 
Association, dated April 4, 2023. The letter lists the Petitioner's sporting achievements from 2011 to 
2016, his receipt of the I I award in 2012, and states that he "was a fundamental part of the 
squad that in 2015 won theI Ifor the Chilean Federation." The letter from Mr. 
I Idoes not provide other details about membership criteria. Nor does the letter establish the 
Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. Rather, the letter praises the Petitioner's 
achievements as a football player for specific events and for a specific period of time. 
The Petitioner next asserts that the Director did not consider his 20121 I award in analyzing 
his sustained acclaim. In her decision, the Director specifically discusses the I I award, 
stating, "While the award reflects institutional recognition for excellence, it does not reflect national 
or international recognition for excellence in the field. The record does not contain any evidence to 
indicate that this award is recognized beyond the ... institution on a national or international level." 
eal, the Petitioner submits a letter dated October 10, 2023, from director 
of , in support of his assertion that the l __ 
award demonstrates sustained acclaim. Mr.I I states that the Petitioner "is recognized for 
his outstanding career in past editions of the I Iespecially in 2011 where 
he was captain and key member in obtaining the title." The letter does not mention the I I 
award. Other evidence in the record describes the I I award as "recognition of the best 
footballer of the year." The Petitioner does not explain how having received this award once in 2012 
demonstrates his sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not give full consideration to the Petitioner's roles with 
various football teams in supporting his sustained national and international acclaim. In her decision, 
the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's roles with each football team and determined that the 
record did not demonstrate "that the Petitioner contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of [the teams'] activities." In analyzing the final merits, the Director determined that 
the record did not establish "that these teams were among those achieving success at the highest levels 
of the competition, or that [the Petitioner's] individual performance elevated him to the same status as 
athletes successfully competing at the highest international level." 
Ini support ofhis assertion that his role as a player on several football teams demonstrates his sustained 
acclaim, the Petitioner references a letter dated March 15, 2023, from Mr. 
states that he has been technical director of professional football at various football 
clubs from 1996 to 2019, and of the ______ from 2021 to 2022. The letter states that 
the Petitioner is a "great professional and an excellent person." However, the letter does not 
specifically address the Petitioner's acclaim as a football player or discuss the Petitioner's roles with 
any of teams. Further, based on the dates Mr. I I states that he worked with each 
football club, it appears that he only worked with the Petitioner for one year, from 2014 to 2015, while 
the Petitioner played for 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two additional letters ofrecommendation. A letter dated November 
29, 2023, from I I head coach ofl Iin Major League Soccer, praises the 
Petitioner as a skilled player. An unsigned letter dated November 7, 2023, from I II I former President of the I I also praises the Petitioner's talent and career as 
a professional football player. 3 However , the Petitioner does not explain how either letter 
demonstrates his sustained acclaim. The letter from Mr. I Imentions the Petitioner's specific 
achievements in 2015 and 2016 but does not address his achievements outside of this time frame. The 
letter from former President! Idoes not discuss how the Petitioner maintained his acclaim 
over any period of time. 
The Petitioner also submits a document titled "Work Model: Soccer for Everyone," outlining an 
educational model for teaching football. The document is undated and does not identify its author. 
The Petitioner does not reference this document in his brief on appeal, nor does he explain the 
probative value of this document in demonstrating his sustained acclaim. 
As noted above, in determining whether a petitioner has enjoyed sustained national or international 
acclaim, we consider that such acclaim must be maintained. Upon review of the totality of the 
evidence, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner here has not demonstrated sustained national 
or international acclaim to demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor and has not established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim required by section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 The record includes a certified English translation of this letter, as well as the original in Spanish. The original letter in 
Spanish does not contain any signature. Additionally , the "Certificate of Translation " attesting to the translator 's fluency 
in Spanish and English is dated May 26, 2023, almost five months before the date of the letter. The Petitioner must resolve 
inconsistencies with independent , objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). 
4 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. 
Accordingly , we decline to reach and hereby reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) ("courts 
and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 18, 2024 In Re: 31650632 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish: 
1) his eligibility as an individual ofextraordinary ability, 2) he seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and 3) his entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien' s entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In 2009, the Petitioner filed Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, seeking classification 
as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, as well as a national interest waiver of 
the job offer requirement. See section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) ofthe Act. Specifically, the Petitioner indicated 
in part 6 that he intended to work as a "Self-employed Lawyer" to "seek[] permanent employment in 
the United States as a self-employed lawyer to practice international trade law (public aspect) 
specializing in 'Trade Adjustment Assistance." The Director denied the petition, and we subsequently 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and subsequent motion. 
In 2010, the Petitioner filed Form 1-140, seeking his first classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Specifically, the Petitioner indicated in part 6 his job title as "Lawyer" and 
nontechnical job description as "Practice of Law." In addition, the Petitioner stated that he "has 
formed/incorporated his own legal practice, a professional corporation -'The Law Office of 
[Petitioner],' and has established presences in both the State of New York and State of California." 
The Director denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and 16 
motions. 
Regarding this petition, filed in 2013, the Petitioner changed his job title for the proposed employment 
as "Postsecondary Teacher" and provided a nontechnical description of the job as follows: "[t]each 
postsecondary courses. Includes both be primarily engaged in teaching and do a combination of 
teaching and research." In addition, the Petitioner submitted a certificate stating that the Petitioner 
"studied at (Undergraduate program of Law/Bachelor's degree of 
Law) from September 2000 to July 2004." Further, the Petitioner presented evidence relating to him 
being a candidate for diploma examination at the in 2011. The 
Petitioner did not submit any other evidence or explain how he qualified for the immigrant 
classification. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility and provided evidence relating to the following evidentiary criteria: awards (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)), memberships (8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)), published material (8 C.F.R. 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii)), judging (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)); original contributions (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v)), scholarly articles (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)), leading or critical role (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii)), and high salary (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix)). Specifically, the Petitioner made the 
following claims: 
• Awards -Approval for the immigrant status under the Quality Migrant Admission Scheme 
by the Immigration Department of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region through 
comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
• Memberships -Fellows of the American Bar Foundation 
• Published Material -Flyer and invitation for the Petitioner's doctoral dissertation public 
defense session and evidence from the New York International Chapter News of the New 
York State Bar Association 
• Judging-Two-time judge for the National Appellate Advocacy Competition 
• Original Contributions -Doctoral dissertation 
• Scholarly Articles -Articles published by the New York International Chapter News of the 
New York State Bar Association; Electronically-In-Touch, an electronic newsletter of the 
NYSBA Young Lawyers Section; and Review, a publication of the American Society of 
International Law 
• Leading or Critical Role -American Bar Association (ABA) Young Lawyers Division 
liaison 
• High Salary -Checks and reimbursement expenses from the ABA. Also claimed eligibility 
through comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not meet any ofthe regulatory criteria, finding the evidence 
related to his occupation as a lawyer rather than his claimed field of expertise as a postsecondary 
teacher. Likewise, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish his intent to work as a 
postsecondary teacher in the United States rather than as a lawyer and subsequently did not show he 
would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues: 
The USCIS Texas Service Center's denial decision was primarily based on the 
erroneous conclusion of law and fact that the submitted evidence is related to the field 
of law and not for postsecondary education teachers and thus most of the submitted 
evidence were not considered, among other things. The USCIS Texas Service Center 
erroneously rejected seven of the eight regulatory criteria claimed by the petitioner, the 
rejection of which was solely based on this same erroneous finding. 
Postsecondary teachers include law teachers, such as professors oflaw. The submitted 
evidence is in fact related to and appropriate for the instant petition .... 
More specifically, in accordance with the Standard Occupational Classification system, 
the category "Postsecondary Teachers" (SOC Code: 25-1000) includes the sub­
category "Law Teachers, Postsecondary Teacher" (SOC Code: 25-1112) (Description: 
"Teach courses in law. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those 
who do a combination of teaching and research."). 
3 
Last but not least, given that law teaching is actually a natural development and 
extension of the petitioner's being a lawyer, the submitted evidence has demonstrated 
that the petitioner is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of 
expertise. 
The issue here, however, is not whether postsecondary teachers include law teachers, such as 
professors of law. Rather, the issue is whether the Petitioner has established his eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field as a postsecondary teacher, whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated his intent to continue work as a postsecondary teacher, and whether the Petitioner will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States as a postsecondary teacher. As indicated above, 
with this current petition, the Petitioner initially claimed his intended employment in postsecondary 
education as a teacher. The statute and regulations require an individual's national or international 
acclaim to be sustained and that he or she seeks to continue work in the area of expertise in the United 
States. See sections 203(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1153(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii), and 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3) and (5). While a postsecondary teacher oflaw and a lawyer share knowledge 
of the field, the two rely on very different sets of basic skills. Thus, teaching postsecondary students 
and practicing law are not the same area of expertise. This interpretation has been upheld in federal 
court. In Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002), the court stated: 
It is reasonable to interpret continuing to work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" 
as working in the same profession in which one has extraordinary ability, not 
necessarily in any profession in that field. For example, Lee's extraordinary ability as 
a baseball player does not imply that he also has extraordinary ability in all positions 
or professions in the baseball industry such as a manager, umpire or coach. 
Id. at 918. The court noted a consistent history in this area; see also Mussarova v. Garland, 562 
F.Supp.3d 837 (C.D. Ca. 2022) (determining that the plaintiff's awards as a water polo player were 
not awarded as a water polo coach); Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 
131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Oh. 2015) (concluding that the AAO's reasoning, relevant statutory and 
regulatory language, and case law was not arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with 
the law in finding that an Olympic gold medal gymnast must meet the extraordinary ability 
classification through her achievements as a coach, her intended area of expertise). 
While we acknowledge the possibility of an individual's extraordinary claim in more than one field, 
such as teaching postsecondary students and practicing law, a petitioner, however, must demonstrate 
"by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of 
expertise." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). In this case, the Petitioner claimed his area of expertise as a 
postsecondary teacher. However, the record contains no evidence relating to his accomplishments, 
achievements, history, or experience as a teacher, let alone as a postsecondary teacher. Even if we 
considered his law evidence under the regulatory criteria, the Petitioner did not show how he intends 
to teach in postsecondary education in the United States. 
4 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h) states: 
(5) No offer ofemployment required. Neither an offer for employment in the United 
States nor a labor certification is required for this classification; however, the petition 
must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to 
continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from 
prospective employer( s ), evidence of prearranged commitments, such as contracts, or 
a statement from the beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue 
his or her work in the United States. 
Here, the Petitioner did not include any letters from prospective employers, evidence of prearranged 
commitments or contracts, or a statement detailing his plans on how he intends to continue his work 
in the United States. In fact, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted evidence 
claiming to "show[] the Petitioner's latest achievements": 
• Appointed one of two Co-Chairpersons for the United Nations and International 
Organizations Committee of the ABA International Law Section 
• Organized and hosted the 14th Quinquennial United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention 
and Criminal Justice 
• Authorized to travel to Vienna, Austria through the Protocol Department of the Federal 
Ministry for European and International Affairs of the Republic of Austria 
• Official representative of United States local bar associations and one of two United States 
bar associations 
However, the Petitioner did not show how any of the documentation involves continuing to work as a 
postsecondary teacher in the United States. Furthermore, as indicated earlier, none of the Petitioner's 
prior filings made any mention of the Petitioner's past experience in postsecondary teaching. In fact, 
although he filed multiple motions regarding his first extraordinary petition and while this petition was 
pending, none of his motions made any mention of him teaching postsecondary students or otherwise 
involved postsecondary teaching. Again, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has any 
experience in postsecondary teaching. Here, the Petitioner has not established how he intends to 
continue to work in his area of postsecondary teaching when he has never worked in his purported 
area of expertise, nor has he shown any interest from any higher education institutions willing to hire 
him. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not accompanied the petition with clear evidence 
showing how he intends to continue to work in the United States in his claimed area of expertise as a 
postsecondary teacher. Further analysis of his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability 
through fulfillment of the regulatory criteria and whether he will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States would, therefore, serve no meaningful purpose. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 1 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his intent to continue to work in his claimed area of expertise, 
we conclude that he has not established eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an 
independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 20, 2024 In Re: 31069720 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an urban game designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification as set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
A noncitizen is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; 
and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claim that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts based on his 
years of experience as an urban game designer, which included developing urban games in Europe 
and acting as an interim department chair and assuming the role of game lab manager at the I 
Because the Petitioner has 
not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims 
that he meets the five regulatory listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (v), (vii), and (viii). The 
Director detennined that the Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in a leading or critical role 
with organizations that have a distinguished reputation and therefore satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports this determination. 
The Director concluded, however that the Petitioner did not establish that he met any of the remaining 
criteria that he claimed, namely, the four criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), (v), and (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for the 
requested classification . He contends that the Director overlooked or disregarded certain evidence and 
applied requirements that are not indicated by the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services policy. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least two additional criteria. 
First, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director imposed additional requirements 
that are not specified in the regulation concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which 
requires evidence demonstrating a petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others in the 
same or an allied field. Namely, the Director determined that the record lacks evidence "showing the 
names of the participants evaluated by the petitioner, their level of expertise, the specific competitive 
categories he judged, and the significance and magnitude of the competition ." The Petitioner points 
to USCIS policy as guidance regarding this criterion, asserting that the Director listed factors that 
represent "substantive novel standards" and should not be required to satisfy the criterion in question. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F .2(8)( 1 ), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual , ("The petitioner must 
show that the person has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that the person 
actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization ." 
2 
The Policy Manual further notes, "For example, a petitioner might document the person's peer review 
work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the review, accompanied by 
evidence confinning that the person actually completed the review.") 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to previously submitted evidence documenting bis review of a paper 
that was submitted to an international conference of applied arts faculty with focus on interaction 
between science and fields of applied art. The Petitioner also points to evidence showing that he was 
chosen to be a judge on a "multidisciplinary jury" that determined which applicants would be selected 
for admission tol IBased on this evidence, 
the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Likewise , the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director imposed additional 
requirements that are not specified in the regulation concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence that the Petitioner's work has been displayed at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner contends, and we agree, that the Director unnecessarily 
imposed "substantive novel standards" by noting the lack of evidence showing that the Petitioner's 
"works have often been featured alongside those of artists who enjoy national or international 
reputations" and demonstrating "his regular participation in shows or exhibitions at major venues 
devoted to the display of his work alone." See id. 
Regarding artistic displays, the Petitioner points to previously submitted evidence documenting his 
participation inl Ia joint project in which one of the two organizers is the "national centre 
for artistic creation in public space." This project involved artistic displays, including a project ofthe 
Petitioner. The printed material about the event repeatedly references "artistic projects" 
as the focus of the joint project and refers to the project participants as "artists," highlighting art as a 
means for achieving social and economic empowerment or development of cultural policy. 
Importantly, the event material refers to the Petitioner as one of "seven artists" displaying one of 
"seven participatory art practices" as a form of "artistic expression[] ," and states that through his 
presentation, the Petitioner as "the artist" conveys "his philosophical and conceptual search." We 
therefore find that the Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he has satisfied 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
With eligibility under these two additional criteria, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. USCIS must now 
determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits determination in 
the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
3 
On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety to make 
a final merits determination. In the final merits determination, the Director should weigh the evidence 
submitted in support ofall claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), any other 
relevant evidence in the record, and the Petitioner's claims and evidence on appeal to determine 
whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 21, 2023 In Re: 26967863 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and a high salary). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is currently a professional baseball player for thel Iin Major League 
Baseball (MLB). Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not satisfy the awards, membership, published material, and salary criteria. After reviewing all the 
evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
We find that the Petitioner meets the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the published 
material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)Tiii), I 
and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Specifically, the Petitioner received a 
2019 MLB American League "Player of the Week A ward" as an outstanding player. In addition, he 
has been the subject of articles in major media, including ESPN.com, USA Today.com, and MLB.com. 
Furthermore, as a starting outfielder for thd Ithe Petitioner has performed in critical 
role for a distinguished organization and has commanded a high salary relative to other professional 
baseball players. Accordingly, the record indicates that he has satisfied at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
will analyze his accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes 
are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We evaluate 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility 
for this classification. 
The Petitioner has played as an outfielder for the~-----~ in MLB since 2018. He received 
MLB 's "Player of the Week A ward" in 2019 and was named as a finalist for the 2020 American 
League '1 I' for his position. In addition, the record includes sports 
coverage of the Petitioner's offensive and defensive play in media such as SBNation.com, 
WhiteCleatBeat.com, ESPN.com, USAToday.com, and MLB.com. The Petitioner also submitted 
copies of his MLB player contracts showing that he commanded a salary of $2,450,000 in 2022 and 
$3,550,000 in 2023. 
With regard to the Petitioner's professional baseball career, S-B-, who Forbes magazine ranked as the 
2022 "most powerful agent in North American team sports," writes: 
[The Petitioner] is entering his prime and his talents have established himself as one of 
the best outfielders in baseball. He made his Major League debut in 2018 and has 
performed against the highest level ofcompetition available in the world. Since 2018, 
his defense has been recognized among the best in the Major Leagues by consistently 
receiving votes for the prestigious 'I tas one of the best 
defensive outfielders in the American League .... And, while [the Petitioner's] defense 
is well-known, his offense is even more impressive. Since 2018, only 16 other players 
in the game have matched him in home runs ( 62), doubles (88), stolen bases ( 45), walks 
(119), and on-base plus slugging (.768). 
The aforementioned information from S-B-, along with additional corroborating evidence in the 
record, sets the Petitioner apart from other professional baseball players through a "career ofacclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. The totality ofthe evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner possesses 
a level of expertise consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor and that he has sustained national acclaim in his sport. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national acclaim and that his achievements 
have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that he 
intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 21, 2024 In Re: 31035202 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a provider of protective security services, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not established that his entry into the United States will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated he provides "protective security services to high-profile, ultra-high net worth 
individuals." He intends to continue to work in the executive protection field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the plain language 
requirements of one evidentiary criterion relating to high remuneration for services at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to memberships (ii), and evidence that the individual has performed in 
a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation (viii). 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's high remuneration for 
services. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership of the Ronin South 
Africa's (Ronin) alumni association due to his successfu l completion ofthe Hostile Environment Close 
Protection Course in 2018. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines if the 
association for which the person claims membership requires that members have outstanding 
2 
achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements are required for 
membership in this organization, or that it relies on recognized national or international experts to 
determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the issue is not whether entry into Ronin's hostile environment 
close protection course requires a person with outstanding achievements in the field and judged by 
recognized national or international experts, but instead, whether the individuals who complete the 
course and are members of the Ronin's alumni association, satisfy the evidentiary requirements. The 
Petitioner submitted print-outs from the Ronin website that listed the requirements for entry into a 
course program to include the applicant must have English language proficiency at the equivalent of 
a CEFR B2 level; a holder of a driver's license for at least two years; a good physical fitness baseline 
that is tested on arrival with a standard fitness test; and, a clear or approved criminal background 
check. It appears that entry for a Ronin course is open to any person who can meet the listed 
requirements oflanguage, a driver's license, and pass a fitness test and a criminal background. While we 
appreciate that the fitness test is rigorous, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish 
that outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, are requirements 
for entry into a course at Ronin. 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim that we should evaluate the requirements for entry into Ronin's 
alumni association, the Petitioner submitted a reference letter from the CEO of Ronin Protective 
Services CC on his behalf that stated the "candidate's graduation from our academy indicates that they 
are above average and an exception to the mediocrity within the industry." The author further stated 
students are assessed on "numerous fronts including the theoretical and practical aspects of the 
vocation and they excelled." In a second letter from the same author, he further explained that 15 
percent of students fail the required fitness assessment for entry into the close protection training 
program. He further noted that in 2018, the year the Petitioner completed the close protection training 
program at Ronin, the failure rate of the close protection course was 40.6%. While the letters from the 
CEO ofRonin state that membership to the alumni group requires certain achievements, such as a certain 
level ofphysical fitness and the successful completion of a five-week program, the letters do not provide 
sufficient information regarding its membership criteria, nor do they demonstrate that such 
requirements are comparable to the regulatory requirement of outstanding achievements. The 
Petitioner also failed to provide evidence that admittance to the alumni association is determined by 
nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field pursuant to the plain language ofthe regulation 
3 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that 
are not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 1 
The record does not contain sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate the membership eligibility 
requirements for the claimed association, how members are selected, and that the Petitioner's membership 
in this alumni association was based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as 
having outstanding achievements in the field ofprotective services. Therefore, this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. In 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner stated he performed a critical role at 
I I 
For a critical role, individuals must establish that they have contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment. 2 In addition, this criterion requires that the 
organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy 
reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
As noted by the Director, while the Petitioner submitted letters to confirm his role at I I and theythey provided very general explanations of the Petitioner's duties in his role at Team Leader. 
The Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation to establish he played a critical role as the 
letters primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions without 
specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples ofhow those contributions rose 
to a level consistent with major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision 
and instead contends throughout his career he performed in critical roles in his field of expertise b 
holding his current position of Executive Protection Consultant/Team Lead for 
I and his prior position with the same title at 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that he provides execntive protective service to /::5
profile individuals, and is currently providing these services to I I the CEO of 
I I He further contends that due to the nature of his work in which he provides protective 
1 Matter ofHo, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
4 
I services to a famous individual, there is a "limit on the kind of information that is permitted to be 
disclosed." 
The Petitioner contends he performed a critical role for I I by "providing personal protective 
services to one of the company's extremely wealthy and high profile clients", _____ the 
CEO ofc=] The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Vice President, Enterprise Programs at 
I that indicated the Petitioner is a Team Leader and provided a brief outline of the duties 
performed in that position. The author also noted that the Petitioner's training and unique skill set 
make him an "invaluable asset tol Imission to provide comprehensive security solutions that 
help protect businesses, employees, communities, and assets." The Petitioner also submitted a letter 
from the Director, US Immigration of stating that the Petitioner is an employee ofI Ibut 
will support in the position of GSPS Team Lead. 
The letter froml Ihowever, does not provide specific, detailed information explaining how the 
Petitioner's contributions to the company resulted in successful outcomes for the business. Instead, 
the letter describes the Petitioner's role and skills, it does not show how his role as a Team Leader 
impacted I I While the letter makes the broad claim that the Petitioner is an "invaluable asset" 
to I I it did not further elaborate and articulate how the Petitioner's role was critical to the 
company. Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain 
detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization 
or establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner's do not. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the Petitioner performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The 
letters considered above primarily contain bare assertions ofacclaim and vague claims ofcontributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rose to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language ofthe statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the three evidentiary criteria discussed above. As 
such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion ofthe one remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) cannot change 
the outcome of the appeal. 
Moreover, since the identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to 
reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's arguments regarding how his entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. Therefore, we reserve and will not address 
this remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
5 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); 
see also Matter ofD-L-S, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. l O(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition adjudicated on a different standard - statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. 
US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 
1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d at 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over 
the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to 
the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence ofeither a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 21, 2024 In Re: 31284298 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (BJJ) coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states 
that he has been a competitive athlete, instructor, and referee ofBJJ for more than 
40 years. On his resume, the Petitioner states that he began learning and competing in Jiu-Jitsu in 
1976. In 1984 he began teaching Jiu-Jitsu to children in school, while continuing his own training for 
competitions. In 1989, the Petitioner , along with his brothers, opened the in 
Brazil to teach and train BJJ. Inow operates in several countries, including multiple 
locations in the United States. Through! lthe Petitioner has promoted more than 100 black 
belts in BJJ. The Petitioner states that during his career he has led and founded organizations that 
govern and regulate the sport of Jiu-Jitsu and its competition s in Brazil and internationally. The 
Petitioner is currently one of only 12 BJJ masters to hold the _________ He seeks 
to continue his work as a BJJ coach in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-( x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he met four of these criteria: 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publication s or other major 
media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significanc e; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record was not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner met any of the claimed criteria. The Director 
allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to demonstrate that he satisfied at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence asserting that he met the following 
criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in major trade or professional publications or other major 
media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Performing in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only one of the ten criteria. 
Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
having participated as a judge of the work of others in the field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner has 
established that he meets one additional criterion, specifically the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), having performed in a leading role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. However, he has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence that he met this criterion with the initial filing. After reviewing 
the Petitioner's response to the RFE, the Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's belt 
rankings and recognition received for service and appreciation. However, the Director determined 
that the belt rankings demonstrate completion of training rather than excellence in the field. The 
Director further determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the awards in the record were 
given for excellence in coaching BJJ, his field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he received the "Centenary Medal ofth _ 
The award was given 
on _ 2023. Additional information in the record about the medal states that it is awarded "with 
the aim of awarding civilian and military personalities or public and private institutions for their 
significant contributions towards the health and physical and operational capability of the members of Ior for having acted prominently in this same field of life enhancement, thereby elevating the 
name of the ______________ 
A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of 
Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971). Here, the petition was filed on December 30, 
3 I 
2022. Because the Petitioner's Centenary Medal was awarded in March 2023, after the filing of the 
petition, we will not consider this award to demonstrate that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Even if we consider this award, which we do not, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the medal 
was awarded for excellence in the field of either BJJ or BJJ coaching. Neither the award itself nor the 
additional materials in the record about the medal state that it is awarded based on skills of BJJ or 
coaching BJJ. The record includes an article about the award dated March 2010, the first year the 
award was issued. The article states that the medal was awarded to "28 civilian and 25 military 
figures," and included a "former football player," but does not mention BJJ or BJJ coaching. 
The Petitioner also claims that he meets this criterion based on the ________ award. 
He states that he was awarded this medal three times, in 2015, 2016 and 2022, and the award is for 
"athletes, masters, and personalities [in men's sports] with focus on martial arts." The record includes 
a ________ certificate issued to the Petitioner on I I 2022, which states, 
"This is a fair tribute to someone who has a career marked by work and a permanent commitment to 
sport, culture, and education." The record also includes a photograph of various medals, highlighting 
three medals titled dated 2015, 2016, and 2022. 
The photograph of the medals does not establish that these medals were awarded to the Petitioner. No 
name is included on the face ofthe medals, and nothing identifies the Petitioner as the recipient. While 
the certificate identifies the Petitioner as the recipient in 2022, it does not 
demonstrate that the award was given for excellence in the field of BJJ or BJJ coaching. 
The record includes an article about the award, dated August 2016, which states, "The ceremony 
includes professionals from various areas that drive sport in Brazil." On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
a second article about the award, dated August 2019. The article states that the award event is 
"considered the 'Oscar of Brazilian Sports'" and has "a focus on martial arts." However, neither 
article mentions BJJ or describes the medal as an award for excellence in the field of BJJ or BJJ 
coaching. 
The language of the regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to 
establish every element of this criterion. The record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's 
awards constitute his receipt of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field of BJJ or BJJ coaching. 
The record also includes a "Certificate of Appreciation" issued to the Petitioner by the ___ 
Community Affairs Bureau in I I 2022, and an undated "Honorable 
Ment ion" certificate issued to the Petitioner by the publisher of I I a magazine about 
martial arts. The Petitioner does not provide additional information about these awards, including the 
criteria used to grant the award, the national or international significance of the awards, the number of 
awardees, or limitations on competitors. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 
The Petitioner initially submitted certificates of his BJJ belt rankings. These certificates indicate that 
he was recognized with progressive rankings from "Orange Belt" in December 1979, to "Master Red 
and White Belt 8th degree" in March 2022. As the Director noted, these certificates do not equate to 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The certificates 
establish that the Petitioner earned these ranks based on his successful completion of a required skills 
test or examination, but he has not established that these rank certificates constitute either prizes or 
awards. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted that "[his] receipt ofthel in BJJ is, 
in and of itself, an internationally recognized award in this martial art, as this is one of the highest 
achievable ranks in BJJ." The record includes an "Official Diploma of the Confederation of Brazilian ISports Jiu-Jitsu" (CBJJE) issued to the Petitioner onl I2019, granting the title ofl I 
In attempting to demonstrate that the is an internationally recognized award, the 
Petitioner references a letter of recommendation from ____ president of the I I 
and instructor at the Petitioner's Jiu-Jitsu club, and an article from 
the websit e www. ujitsu- ews.com, Mr. I ji n titled I Istates 
that thel I"necessitates rigorous training for a minimum period of 30 years," and 
"is regarded as a lifetime achievement and a testament to the Jiu-Jitsu ethos." The website article 
states that the I I represents "a true expert jiu jitsu master with at least thirty-seven 
years ofBJJ training and teaching as an active black belt." The record also includes the "Jiu Jitsu Belt 
Ranking System" of the I I The I Iidentifies the minimum requirements of the I I I I as, "(At least 53 years old) with a minimum of 6 (six) years as a and 
having at least 32 years of activity in Jiu Jitsu." 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's longtime dedication to BJJ, the record does not demonstrate 
that the I I equates to a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in the field. The record does not include information about the criteria used to grant the 
award, beyond a minimum age and number of years of experience. Further, the record includes 
conflicting information regarding the minimum experience requirements, stated as 30 years by Mr. I 37 years in the website article, and 32 years on the belt ranking system. While we 
acknowledge that counsel for the Petitioner states that this is dependent on the ranking system used, 
the Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, at 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet the standards of this criterion, an individual must submit evidence that 1) they are a member 
of an association; 2) the association is in their field of extraordinary ability; 3) the association requires 
5 
outstanding achievements as a condition for membership; and 4) that the outstanding achievements 
are judged by national or international experts in their fields. 
In support of this criterion the Petitioner submitted a statement from the Brazilian and International 
Association of Jiu-Jitsu Masters. The Director determined that the statement without supporting 
documentary evidence was not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's conclusion that he does not meet this 
criterion. Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. 
See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 
657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion requires evidence showing published material about the individual and their work in the 
field of extraordinary ability. In addition, that material must include basic information such as its title, 
date and author, and must have been published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
The record includes several articles on the topic of BJJ, some mentioning the Petitioner and some 
featuring the Petitioner. The Director determined that this criterion was not met because the Petitioner 
did not submit evidence to demonstrate that the articles were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. The Director noted that the record did not include evidence to 
establish the circulation statistics for the publishing sources, or evidence of the intended audience for 
the publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director erred in not considering evidence submitted in 
response to the RFE, which included details about the publishing sources. The Petitioner also provides 
additional information about one publishing source. 
We note that several articles that the Petitioner submitted in response to the RFE were published in 
2023, after the filing of this petition in December 2022. As noted above, a petitioner must establish 
eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). Therefore, we will not consider those 
articles published after the date of filing to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We also note that several articles in the record, while mentioning the Petitioner, do not discuss the 
Petitioner's work in the field of BJJ. For example, a biography of another Jiu-Jitsu figure printed on 
the website BJJHeroes.com identifies the Petitioner as the figure's instructor but does not include any 
discussion of the significance or value of this role to the field of BJJ or BJJ coaching. Additionally, 
some of the published material in the record is printed from the website of the Petitioner's Jiu-Jitsu 
club. The USCTS Policy Manual notes regarding these type materials, "Any materials the petitioner 
submits must demonstrate the value of the person's work and contributions ... Marketing materials 
6 
created for the purpose of selling the person's products or promoting the person's services are not 
generally considered to be published material about the person." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
supra. 
The record includes two articles about the Petitioner published in TAT AME, one in 2001 and the 
other in I I 2022. The record includes information from the TAT AME website, describing it as 
a Brazilian magazine "[ c ]reated to cover events, athletes, personalities , and everything else that was 
part of the world of [BJJ] ... We cover the main fight events, produce exclusive, serious and quality 
content, and we are always attentive to the most important events in the field." The information states 
that TATAME's Facebook page has 400,000 followers and its YouTube channel has "almost 50 
thousand subscribers with more than 14 million views." 
While the information about TAT AME tends to demonstrate that its content is popular on social media 
platforms , this information does not identify TATAME as a professional or major trade publication in 
the field ofBJJ. The record does not include information about TATAME's relevant audience or the 
relative circulation , readership or viewership. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), ("In evaluating 
whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, 
relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the 
relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media"). 
Therefore, we cannot conclude that TATAME qualifies as major media to satisfy this criterion. 
For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien 's original scientific, scholarly , artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
With the initial filing, in support of this criterion the Petitioner listed his original contributions of 
major significance as follows: 
• Founder of two major Jiu Jit su organizations in IB_ra_z_il_.------, 
• One of the organizers of the __________________ 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that he is the main organizer and current president of the 
Iand the creator of the ______________ He also stated that he 
developed his own unique teaching methodology, which is considered to be "one of his main 
contributions to the sport." The Petitioner referenced recommendation letters, the meeting minutes 
and charter of the I Iand publications in the record. The Petitioner also noted that he published 
1 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, Appendic es, supra, at F.2. 
7 I 
a book, titled in 2021. A copy of 
the book is included in the record. 
The Director determined that this criterion was not met because the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his contributions of founding two Jiu-Jitsu organizations was original work, or what significant 
impact this had on the field as a whole. The Director specifically noted that the record did not include 
documentary evidence to substantiate the Petitioner's original contribution. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references evidence already in the record and states that the Director "only 
considered [his] founding of two Jiu Jitsu organizations to determine that he did not meet the 
requirements ... [ and] evidence provided regarding [his] own teaching methodology, or techniques as 
stated, was completely ignored in the decision." 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is the current president of the I I and is a founding 
member of the I Ias well as I Ithe Petitioner's BJJ training club operating in multiple 
countries. While the record includes articles and recommendation letters mentioning thePetitioner's 
association with the record does not include corroborating evidence from to describe the 
Petitioner's original contribution through this organization. 
In the Petitioner's resume and personal statement, he states that he founded I Iwith his 
brothers. TheI Icharter and meeting minutes indicate that the Petitioner and his brothers, along 
with others founded the I IHowever, the evidence does not describe the Petitioner's role in any 
of the organizations relative to his brothers or other founding members. Therefore, we cannot 
determine the originality of the Petitioner's contributions to these organizations. 
Furthermore, the record does not contain sufficient information with corroborating documentation to 
support the Petitioner's assertions that his teaching methodology is of major significance. Although 
the record includes recommendation letters from professionals who discuss the Petitioner's teaching 
methodology, the majority of these individuals are directly associated with I I where the 
Petitioner uses his own methodology of teaching. On appeal, the Petitioner states that I "is 
the only team in the world that works with this method." The record does not contain documentation 
or evidence demonstrating the impact of his teaching method on or the extent of its use in the field of 
BJJ beyond the Petitioner's own organization. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
8 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department ofthe organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), supra. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam- Webster's online dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
'marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person."' Id. 
The Petitioner points to his roles as founding member and president ofI Iand founding member 
ofI I in support of this criterion. The Director determined that this criterion was not met 
because the evidence did not show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, that his 
contributions were of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations, or that the 
organizations have a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has performed in a critical role for I I He cites to his 
role as "the legal representative who registered" the I I as well as his role as president. The 
Petitioner also references published material in the record identifying I I as "one of the main 
entities of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu." 
The record includes the I _ charter. The charter describes the fundamental objectives of the 
organization as: 
• Manage, administrate, direct, control, fiscalize, spread, encourage and foster the 
practice of Sportive Jiu Jitsu of all levels through all of the national territory. 
• Represent National Sportive Jiu Jitsu together with legal entities of civil or public 
law. 
• Represent Sportive Jiu Jitsu in competitions outside Brazil, official or not, 
organizing a team of athletes and directors. 
• Promote, by itself or through authorized third parties, any competition of Sportive 
Jiu Jitsu in the national territory. 
• Equip all associations, clubs, federations and leagues in Brazilian territory that 
cultivate Sportive Jiu Jitsu. 
• Organize, administrate, encourage and direct Sportive Jiu Jitsu in all of its 
categories, doing competitions between the affiliates and the other National or 
International Federations, in the occasions authorized by the competent entities. 
• To support, promote and spread the initiative of the affiliates to carry out Sportive 
Jiu Jitsu competitions. 
Recommendation and support letters in the record describe the Petitioner's role as a "pioneer" of the 
I I The record includes a letter from Master leader of the I I andand member ofthe I I considered one ofthel lin BJJ. Master 
I I states that the Petitioner "is recognized by everyone for strengthening the State of Sao Paolo 
in Jiu-Jitsu" for his role in creating the I I A letter froml Jiu Jitsu teacher and 
documentary director, states that, under the Petitioner's management, "the I Iorganized Jiu Jitsu 
championships, in big and small cities, all over the world. [He] has organized referee clinics, events 
9 
and tournaments but he also provided official recognition to Masters and Professors through [the 
I I 
Additionally, published material about Jiu-Jitsu in the record identifies the I las one of the "main 
entities of Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and a reference in Sao Paulo." The articles also demonstrate that the I Iorganizes many well-known BJJ competitions in Brazil, including the I I I Iheld annually in Sao Paulo. 
Upon review of the entire record, including the I I charter which describes the role and 
responsibilities of president, recommendation and support letters, as well as published material about 
the distinguished reputation of the I I we conclude that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Therefore, this portion of the Director's decision is withdrawn. 
However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
B. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully 
address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a 
finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 2 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments in BJJ or BJJ coaching is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 This review included consideration of testimonial evidence that was not claimed to satisfy any particular regulatory 
criterion, such as reference letters from the Petitioner's current and former students and references from professional 
associates familiar with the Petitioner's skills as a BJJ coach. 
10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 22, 2023 In Re: 26986919 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chess trainer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in athletics. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional chess trainer who has coached youth and adult players for national, 
European, and international competition in Norway, Greece, and Georgia. He intends to continue his 
work as a chess trainer in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can meet four of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the two criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii) 
based on his participation as a judge ofthe work of others in the field and his performance in a leading 
or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. The record 
supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his critical role as a coach for the Women's National Team, 
which earned a silver medal at the~---------~in 2022. However, for the reasons 
discussed below, we will withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies the 
criterion relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and 
(v), based on his memberships in professional associations that require outstanding achievements and 
his original contributions of major significance in his field. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
2 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, and 
that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements based 
on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment ofdues or fees do 
not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
In a cover letter that accompanied the initial petition filing, the Petitioner stated that he "is a member 
of numerous Chess Clubs and Associations, and he has a sufficiently high Chess Rating to be a FIDE 
Certified Chess Trainer." The Petitioner also stated that he is a "National Master of the US Chess 
Federation." 
The Petitioner provided a certificate from the U.S. Chess Federation indicating that he achieved the 
official title of National Master in October 2021, accompanied by a letter from the organization 
welcoming him into "a select circle of chess players." The Petitioner also submitted his profile page 
from the International Chess Federation (Federation Internationale de Echecs or FIDE) which lists his 
world, continental and national ranks, his chess rating I land a FIDE Instructor title. He provided 
a certificate issued by the FIDE Trainers' Commission ofthe Norwegian Chess Federation, indicating 
his successful participation in a two-day FIDE Trainers' Seminar in Norway in June 2018. Finally, 
the Petitioner submitted an excerpt from the FIDE Handbook which includes the organization's 
"Regulations for the Titles of Trainers." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director observed that "no evidence or claim was submitted for 
this criterion" in reference to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner did not address the membership 
criterion in his response to the RFE. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erroneously discounted the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. He emphasizes that he "is a highly ranked member of [FIDE] and is a 
FIDE Trainer; a member of the Norwegian Chess Federation; and he is a U.S. National Master in 
Chess." He further states: 
The process ofbecoming FIDE Instructor and Trainer is complex and multistage. The 
first step is to receive a recommendation from the National Federation as well as 
required experience and education. A candidate should also possess a minimum FIDE 
rating of 1800. [The Petitioner] has become a FIDE Instructor in 2018 and is currently 
a FIDE Arbiter and Trainer." 
While we agree with the Petitioner that the Director appears to have overlooked his claim that he meets 
this criterion, the submitted evidence does not establish that the Petitioner is a member in an 
association that requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national 
or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner emphasizes on appeal that he is a member ofthe Norwegian Chess Federation and has 
achieved the title of National Master with the U.S. Chess Federation. While he provided a certificate 
documenting his National Master title, he did not document his membership in the Norwegian Chess 
Federation, nor did he provide evidence of the membership requirements related to either of these 
3 
organizations and his specific level of membership. Without this evidence, we cannot evaluate 
whether either of these memberships satisfies all elements of the plain language of the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that he satisfies this 
criterion based on his membership in the Norwegian or U.S. Chess Federations. 
The Petitioner states on appeal that he is currently a FIDE Trainer and FIDE Arbiter, but he has not 
submitted evidence to document that he has received these titles from FIDE and that he held one or 
both titles when he filed the petition in September 2022. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (stating that a 
petitioner must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing and must continue to 
be eligible through adjudication). Further, although the Petitioner provided an excerpt from the FIDE 
Handbook with "Regulations for the Titles of Trainers," he did not submit comparable evidence 
regarding FIDE' s requirements for granting the title of Arbiter. 
As noted, the Petitioner's FIDE profile indicates he was a FIDE Instructor as of2018, and he submitted 
evidence that he successfully completed a FIDE Trainers' seminar that fulfilled part of the 
organization's requirements for this title. According to the submitted regulations for the FIDE 
Trainers' System, the title of FIDE Instructor requires an application. To be qualified as a FIDE 
Instructor, one must be a trainer of a national champion or junior or youth champion, have achieved a 
career high rating of at least 2000, and complete a successful professional skills evaluation as a 
participant in a FIDE Trainer's Commission Seminar. 1 The FIDE Handbook includes evaluation tables 
describing a points system used for determining a person's title. Points are awarded based on an 
individual's highest FIDE or national rating, student results, published material, years of experience, 
and written examinations. 
According to the FIDE Handbook, the title recommendations are made by the lecturer in charge ofthe 
FIDE Trainers' Seminar, endorsed by the FIDE Trainers' Commission, and then submitted for 
approval "by either the PB, EB or GA." The regulations indicate that upon approval a trainer will 
receive "an official diploma and badge" with their photograph and license validity. We note that the 
Petitioner did not submit a copy of his official diploma and badge from FIDE as evidence that he 
passed through all stages of the approval process to become a licensed FIDE Instructor. 
Further, while receiving approval for the FIDE Instructor title appears to require a certain baseline 
level of experience, skill and achievement as a chess player and instructor ( evaluated using a points 
system), the record does not contain sufficient evidence to support a finding that a FIDE member's 
achievement of that title requires "outstanding achievements" as judged by national or international 
experts in the field. The level of membership afforded to the person must show that to obtain that 
level of membership, the person was judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. The submitted 
regulations from the FIDE Handbook, without additional context, do not establish that the minimum 
requirements for the "Instructor" title are judged by experts as "outstanding achievements" nor is there 
evidence that the individual( s) who make the final decision to approve the title are recognized national 
1 The FIDE Handbook indicates that there are two lower classes of instructor/trainer (National Instructor and 
Developmental Instructor) that are below FIDE Instructor, and two higher classes of instructor/trainer (FIDE Trainer and 
FIDE Senior Trainer. with the latter requiring significantly higher levels of achievement such as publishing books and 
manuals, serving as a FIDE seminar lecturer, founding chess schools that have developed titled players, and originating 
and developing educational systems or programs in the field.) 
4 
or international experts in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To establish that he meets this criterion, the Petitioner submitted printouts of 'Tournament Details" 
for four chess tournaments from the website of the International Chess Federation. This evidence 
identified the Petitioner as "ChiefArbiter" for the Open Tournament in,___~_______ ____. 
held in Greece in 2012, and as one of several "Deputy Arbiters" for three youth championship 
tournaments held in Greece in 2009, 2010, and 2012. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this evidence, but advised the Petitioner that additional 
documentation would be required to establish that he meets the plain language of this criterion, based 
on the nature ofthe activities he performed at these tournaments. The Petitioner's response to the RFE 
did not address his role as an arbiter at the above-referenced events, but the Director nevertheless 
concluded, without additional explanation, that he satisfied this criterion. 
The record does not contain evidence describing the activities the Petitioner performed in his capacity 
as a deputy or chief arbiter at the referenced chess tournaments. If the petitioner simply enforced the 
rules of a match and sportsmanlike competition, then his participation as an arbiter cannot be said to 
have involved evaluating or judging the work of the competitors. Without further evidence that he 
judged the work of others, such as evidence that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in 
choosing the ultimate winner, evidence regarding officiating is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner claims that he can meet 
four of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). While he established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we conclude, for 
the reasons provided above, that he did not provide evidence demonstrating that he satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(ii) and (iv). Accordingly, he cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which relates to 
original contributions ofmajor significance in the field, cannot change the outcome ofthe appeal. The 
Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion demonstrated that the 
Petitioner made contributions that were significant for individual chess players and for organizations 
that employed him but did not establish that he made original contributions of major significance that 
impacted the broader field ofchess or influenced the work ofothers. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
additional evidence and asserts that he made a "significant impact ... on the popularization of the 
game of Chess inl las a whole," based on his successful coaching of thel INational 
Women's Chess Team. However, we will reserve discussion of this criterion and the Petitioner's 
appellate arguments related to this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
5 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we 
do not need to provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that 
while the Petitioner has achieved some significant success as a chess trainer, the record does not 
support a determination that he has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 22, 2023 In Re: 27492815 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sports journalist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had satisfied only 
one ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled 
only one criterion -judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he 
meets two additional evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on articles posted on the internet and printed 
in publications. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material. 1 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether the evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field, which contains the required 
title, date, and author. If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide 
whether professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
Initially, the Petitioner provided an article posted on adevaldes.com. Neither the article nor the 
accompanying translation includes the article's author. In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article 
posted on lado.mx with both the article and accompanying translation reflecting the author as I I 
I I Both postings show the same article. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), 
the Petitioner offered an updated article with translation posted on adevaldes.com indicating the 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
authorship by 'j f '2 Although the record contains the same article posted on two 
different internet sites, the Petitioner did not explain how they possess two different authors. The 
Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to 
where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material 
inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other evidence submitted 
in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. Furthermore, the article does not demonstrate 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Rather, the article discusses the concept 
of sports entertainment with a brief mention of the Petitioner relating to his description of the article's 
topic. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the Petitioner initially submitted an article posted on wpbf.com; however, the article did 
not contain the author of the material. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner claimed the 
article was authored byl Iand the Petitioner repeats this assertion on appeal. However, 
the Petitioner does not corroborate his assertion with supporting documentation showing the 
authorship of the article. Thus, the Petitioner did not establish the required author of the material 
consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, the article does not indicate 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field. Instead, the article discusses 
Miami, Florida being selected to host the 2026 World Cup with a quote by the Petitioner indicating 
how he loves soccer. 
Likewise, the Petitioner initially provided an article, with translation, published in Milenio. However, 
neither the article nor translation indicates the author of the article. In response to the Director's RFE, 
the Petitioner claimed the article was authored by I I and the Petitioner repeats this 
assertion on appeal. The Petitioner does not corroborate his assertion with supporting documentation 
nor does not article or translation show the author. Furthermore, similar to the postings on 
adevales.com and lado.mx, the article discusses the sports entertainment approach, including 
background information provided by the Petitioner, but the article does not reflect published material 
about the Petitioner consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a self-authored article published 
in Reforma and posted on reforma.com. However, the article discusses the sports entertainment 
concept and is not published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. 
Notwithstanding the above, the record contains two articles posted on lanoticia.com and produ.com 
reflecting published material about the Petitioner relating to his work, including the required titles, 
dates, and authors of the material. However, the Petitioner did not establish the major status of either 
website. 3 Although he provided visit figures from similarweb.com for lanoticia.com (367,000 visits) 
and produ.com (147,000 visits), the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance or relevance of 
these numbers to show the major status of the websites. 4 The Petitioner, for example, did not compare 
2 Both the article and translation spell the author's first name as 
3 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record reflect, the professional nature of the websites. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2(B)(2)(appendix) (providing that evidence ofpublished material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the person should establish that the circulation 
( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material). 'I I 
3 
the data to the data of other websites enjoying major status. Moreover, similarweb.com reflects that 
lantocia.com and produ.com have global rankings of 180,952 and 429,264, respectively. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how such global rankings are tantamount to major media status. 5 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted "About" screenshots from lanoticia.com indicating the digital 
version "is a local and independent communication medium" and screenshots from 
noticiasnewswire.com advertising that produ.com "has been the leading provider of content for 
television, advertising and technology professionals in Latin America, Spain and the US Hispanic 
Market" and "offers three free newsletters that reach more than 30,000 decision-makers and executive 
professionals every day." However, the Petitioner did not offer independent, objective evidence 
establishing the major status of the websites. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. 
July 6, 2007), aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the 
cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). 6 Further, 
the self-serving assertions do not demonstrate that the websites enjoy major media standings. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criterion relating to published material. Although the 
Petitioner also claims eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 7 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
5 For the same reasons, although he submitted figures from similarweb.com for adevaldes.com, lado.mx, wpbf.com, and 
reforma.com, the Petitioner did not show the significance or relevance of the visits or numbers. In addition, while the 
Petitioner provided internet visitor statistics from similarweb.com and statista.com for milenio.com, the record does not 
reflect an article posted on milenio.com. Rather, the Petitioner presented evidence of an aiticle printed in Milenio and did 
not offer evidence establishing the major status of Milenio. Sec, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 
WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
6 The Petitioner also provided a self-serving "Media Kit" for~I----~ 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing him among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643781 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 23, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The 
Petitioner filed a motion to reopen that decision, submitting new evidence in support of his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. He now appeals the Director's dismissal of the motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We note that in reviewing the Petitioner 's motion to reopen, the Director applied the standard at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c) , 
which is applicable to motions before the Board of Immigration Appeals and requires that evidence accompanying the 
motion "was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing." The applicable 
regulation concerning motions to reopen in this case is 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Unlike the Board regulation , we do not 
require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret "new 
facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been previously submitted in the 
proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in I I since at least 2003, and the record shows that he has 
participated in national and international events, including thel !World Championships in 
~-~Ion several occasions. He also submitted evidence of his work as a trainer for other athletes, 
and his certification as a Level I Coach with~----~ He indicates that he intends to continue 
to compete inl I in the United States as well as coach other athletes in the sport. 
A. Major, Internationally Recognized Award 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
2 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
The Petitioner asserted with his response to the second request for evidence (RFE) sent by the Director 
that a notification he received from thel I organization which congratulates him on becoming a 
"Gold~------~Athlete" for 2013 qualifies as a major, internationally recognized award. 
The notification, which is similar to copies of emails he received for subsequent years for "Silver 
~------~Athlete," indicates that this acknowledges his ranking in the top 1 % in the world 
in his age group. We note that the record also includes copies of certificates confirming his "Silver" 
status in other years, but does not include a certificate confirming his "Gold" status. The record also 
includes information about thel I organization and its I I program. 
In his motion decision, the Director did not directly address new evidence submitted by the Petitioner, 
but referenced the previously submitted message regarding his gold I I program status and 
evidence regarding events which took place after the filing of the petition. Although we agree that per 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ), the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and coTinuing trough 
adjudication, the new evidence provided background information regarding the World 
Championship which existed for decades prior to the filing of this petition. More importantly, 
however, this evidence did not mention the I I program, or lend additional support to the 
Petitioner's claim that the certificates verifying his gold and silver status qualify al major,
1 internationally recognized awards. In particular, a news article posted to the CNN website on D 2019 discusses the winners of that year's I I World Championship as well as previous 
winners, and thus may support that award's international recognition, but the Petitioner does not claim 
to have won this award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "heiVg considered top 1 % [sic] is equivalent to winning a medal." 
However, the evidence from thtj,__ __ _.Jmedia guide submitted by the Petitioner states that thd I 
program "is a way of rewarding age-group athletes' hard work, dedication, and performance ... ," 
which indicates that recognition of this status is not only limited to athletes of a particular age group 
and gender, but also excludes professional athletes who do not compete by age groups inl I 
competitions. The fact that age-group athletes and professionals compete in separate divisions for 
separate prizes is confirmed in Sections 1.07 and 1.07 of the 20181 I Competition Rules, 
included with the initial submission. Further, although the record does not indicate how many athletes 
achieved goldLJstatus in 2013, it does indicate that nrrly 1
100,000 athletes compete inl .... ____ _. 
events, which suggests that receipt or eligibility for a gold certificate is far less exclusive than, 
for example, winning a cash prize in th~ I world championship, which evidence in the record 
states is awarded to the top 10 finishers out of more than 2000 competitors. In addition, the Petitioner 
does not assert or refer to evidence in the record which shows that receipt of a gold or silverl I 
certificate is reported in top media, is commonly known to the public at large, or ca1ies a !arr cash 
prize, unlike other awards for whicH I compete such as Olympic medals and world 
championship prizes. We therefore conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
has received a major, internationally recognized award. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that they meet five evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze 
below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To establish that this criterion has been met, a petitioner must demonstrate their receipt of awards or 
prizes, and that those awards or prizes were granted to acknowledge excellence in the field and are 
nationally or internationally recognized. In its motion to reconsider, the Petitioner did not reference 
new facts relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, but 
resubmitted a letter from thel IFederationl I stating that he was a national 
champion! lin the years 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014. The letter 
also states that in addition, he was thel !champion in the 2007, 2008, 
2009, and 2010. The Director had found in his previous decision that this evidence was not sufficient 
to show "the criterion [sic], competitors, and national/international acclaim of any of the 
competitions," and that the record lacked "sufficient evidence of contemporaneous publicity 
surrounding the petitioner's awards ... " 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the letter froml [ as the highest governing body ofi._ __ _, 
in I I is self-explanatory, and that no description of the national championship events is 
needed to meet the requirements of this criterion. However, depending on the specificity, detail, and 
credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a 
proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be 
disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 
(BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the 
introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, the lack of 
details regarding the national championships, specifically how the Petitioner earned the national 
championship ( dates of competitions, points system, etc.) and whether consideration for it was limited 
by age group or professional status, creates the need for corroborating evidence. Although the Director 
noted that corroborating evidence of the Petitioner's 2006 national championship was not in the record, 
despite the Petitioner's assertion, a photograph of a plaque awarded to him was included in his original 
submission. While that plaque was not accompanied by an English translation, as required under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), a comparison with the language of the letter sufficiently 
demonstrates that the Petitioner was awarded the title of national champion in the 25-29 age group by 
I lin 2006. Other photographs of medals, trophies, and plaques in the record do not corroborate 
his national title in other years, nor do several newspaper articles which report on some of his victories 
in I I As such, based upon the I I letter and corroborating evidence of his national 
championship title in 2006, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner also included several newspaper articles which describe his 
victories and placings in othd Isome of which are also confirmed by photographs of trophies 
and medals. However, as will be discussed below, the record lacks circulation statistics for these 
newspapers which might demonstrate national recognition for these awards, and also does not include 
other evidence to support such a finding. In addition, the Petitioner also reasserts that his gold status 
in th~ I program should also be considered under this criterion. However, as noted 
above, the record lacks evidence that that status is recognized at the national or international level. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion based solely on the evidence of his 
national championship in 2006. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
~ Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion upon two letters froni I, with the first dateQ 
L_J2018 stating that he "is part of the national team sincel I 2003 more than a decade honoring 
our organization ... " Although he submitted a second letter dated March 1, 2020 with his motion to 
reopen, the Petitioner correctly states on appeal that the Director did not consider this letter, or the 
Petitioner's national team membership, in his decision. The letter states that "as in any National team, 
you must be at the highest sports level, pass qualifying tests of the highest level, and be in the top 10 
of the best athlete in the country." It then goes on to list additional criteria: 
• Participate in thd~---~I Championship, except with prior permission from the Technical 
Committee 
• Classified in the top ten in the previous year'sl lchampionshir 
• Satisfactorily complete medical and performance tests, includin~~---~ andl I I ._______. 
• "Better average of the last three I I I I 
I I _______________ ___.I' 
• "Greater proximity to the positions established in the criteria for the nominal positions, as 
long as they are in the top 14 in thd I World Series or top five of the national 
championship period in progress" 
A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate eligibility for this 
criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous selection process. 
However, it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he meets every element of a given criterion, 
and we will not assume that every national team requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
Although this letter mentions benchmarks which athletes must meet in order to qualify for the ~----------~I team, several of these requirements are unclear or lack specificity, and 
the letter does not indicate whether one or all of them must be met by an athlete. For instance, the 
letter alone does not establish that participation in thel I Championship is an outstanding 
5 
achievement, and this criterion is contradicted by part of the fifth criterion requiring a top five finish 
in the national championship. Also, the meaning of "greater proximity to the positions established in 
the criteria for the nominal positions" is not apparent, nor is it clear how the "average of the last three 
(apparently referring to thel levent) is used as a .__ _______ __, 
qualifying factor. In addition, these letters are not supported by corroborating documentation such as 
official rules or selection procedures for the national team, despite the Director's request for such 
evidence in his request for evidence issued on July 18, 2019. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's 1 vork in the field for which classification 
is sought Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director noted in his initial decision denying the rtition that while the record includes several 
articles about the Petitioner and his work as J~--~ including those published in Mundo Oriental, 
it did not include evidence that that publication or others that published such articles qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. In his brief accompanying his motion 
to reopen, the Petitioner did not reference new evidence submitted in support of this criterion, but 
asserted that the political situation in I I must be taken into account because "there is no free 
press, and you cannot evaluate the level of distinction of any newspaper ... " He now repeats those 
assertions on appeal. 
We first note that the record does not include any information about the current state of the media in I I or evidence that sports reporting in general has been directly affected by the political 
situation. More importantly, the fact that Mundo Oriental "continues operating and reporting news" 
does not demonstrate that it qualifies as major media inl I as there may continue to be local 
newspapers with limited circulation and distribution as well as publications with a national reach. 2 
The Petitioner's statement that it "is a regional [publication] with regional and national circulation" is 
insufficient without supporting evidence such as circulation figures. As the record does not include 
evidence regarding the circulation and distribution of Mundo Oriental as well as other media in I I it does not demonstrate that published material about the Petitioner has appeared in major 
media. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have participated as a judge, and 
that in that role they judged the work of others in their field or an allied field of specialization. On 
motion and again on appeal, the Petitioner refers to a letter fro ml I dated July 19, 2019, which 
states that he "has actively participated as a judge and career director of the federation in many 
2 Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the 
alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who 
the intended audience of the publication is, as well as the title, date and author of the material. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F .2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part- f'..chapter-2. 
6 
important national and international events." It then lists several races where the Petitioner has served 
as a.__ ___________ ____. race judge. 
As noted by the Director in his initial decision, neither the letter nor other evidence in the record 
specifies the duties of any of these positions. The Petitioner asserts that the title of the positions, and 
the fact that their unspecified duties took place during the course of triathlons, is sufficient to meet the 
plain language of this criterion. However, the letter does not demonstrate whether participation as a 
race judge,~------------~involves evaluating or judging the work or skills of 
competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a race and ensuring sportsmanlike 
competition. Although none of the listed races werel I competitions, the submitted 2018 I I Competition Rules state that '"'Race Referees" are the Head Referee and each person 
appointed by the Head Referee to enforce rules for the Race," and do not mention judges or other 
officials who evaluate the quality of the competitors' work. Without further documentation, such as 
competition rules covering the listed races or other evidence that the Petitioner awarded points or 
exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, evidence regarding officiating at a race is 
insufficient to meet this criterion. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 3 
The Petitioner refers to four documents in the record in support of this criterion on a peal: the 
previously mentioned 20131 I program gold certificate, a letter fro stating that 
he broke a national! I record, his certification as a level I coach b .__ ____ ___. and an email 
about his acceptance into the 2019-2Q !Ambassador Program. However, he does not 
explain how each of these are original contributions to the field of athletics, nor does he elaborate on 
the impact or influence that these personal achievements have had on the sport of1 I 
Regarding thel7 certificate, as discussed above, this is ; (ecogni~T of the number of points he 
earned in thec=Ji;rogram as a result of his participation in in 2013, and the only impact 
evident in the record were the benefits he enjoyed in future races as a result of this status. 
Similarly, his coaching certification is a credential which allows him to perform as al I coach 
in the United States, but the record does not show that at the time this petition was filed, the benefits 
of earning this certification extended beyond the Petitioner and thus that it was a contribution to the 
field of athletics. And the email concerning thel !Ambassador Program provides no 
information about the program to suggest that the Petitioner's selection and potential participation 
would constitute an original contribution to thel I or the sport overall. In addition, the 
Petitioner concedes that his acceptance into this program occurred after he filed his petition, and 
3 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134 
7 
therefore does not help to demonstrate that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
The letter which confirms the Petitioner's national record states that he achieved this record at the 
201 ~ !Championship in I I Texas, and congratulates him for 
this achievement as well as his qualification for his fourth consecutive! !World Championship. 
While this is an impressive personal achjevemer, the letter does not go on to explain how it has 
contributed to the sport oti I inl.__ __ ____. or to the overall field of athletics. Further, while a 
national record sets a benchmark towards which others may strive, the record does not include 
evidence of the direct impact or influence the Petitioner's achievement has had up to the time the 
petition was filed. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that these personal achievements are original contributions 
which have been of major significance to the sport ofl I or the field of athletics, we conclude 
that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11119901 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestra concertmaster, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinaiy ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not demonstrated international recognition of her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement or satisfied any of the alternate initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet three. 
The Petitioner filed an appeal that we dismissed, determining that she had met one of the ten criterion, 
the artistic exhibitions criterion, but not the requisite three. 1 The Petitioner then filed a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider which we dismissed, concluding that she had not met the criteria 
related to lesser awards, leading or critical role, and original contributions. 2 The Petitioner now 
submits a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration; be 
supported by any pertinent precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy; and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and shows proper cause for reopening the proceeding or reconsideration of the prior 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l). 
1 See Matter of A-G-M-, ID# 2524769, 2019WL 1556942 (AAOMar. 20,2019). 
2 See In Re: 5690707, 2020 WL 996542(AAOFeb . 12,2020). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
We dismiss the motions for the reasons set forth below. 3 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
In the instant motion to reconsider, the Petitioner does not indicate or provide evidence demonstrating 
how our prior decision was based upon an incorrect application of law or policy. She therefore has 
not established that she meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider and we will dismiss it 
accordingly. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On second motion, the Petitioner presents new evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion 
found at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )(3 )( viii) and asserts for the first time that she satisfies the criterion relating 
to salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(viii) 
On this motion, the Petitioner does not specifically contest our conclusion that the I I I I (Orchestra) does not enjoy a distinguishedreputation.4 Instead, she claims that 
3 The Petitioner does not contest the findings in our previous decision regarding the evidentiaiy criteria at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v). We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Ike. 
762,767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
4 We note that the Petitioner submits new evidence with respect tol I but does not indicate that this is to address 
our previous ground for dismissal. Specifically, she does not explain or show how this evidence demonstrates that the 
Orchestra enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
2 
she meets this criterion as she served in a leading role forL--------~---r-----, __ ---,-J 
She asserts that her role as the concertmaster for the Orchestra is a leading one for~--~as "[t]he 
live orchestra is an indispensable part of every I performance." She contends that a live 
orchestra is "imperative and critical to thel I shows in reviving traditional Chinese culture -
which is the mission! I seeks to accomplish .... " However the Petitioner submits no new 
evidence on motion to conoborate this claim. She further asse1is that her role as concertmaster in the 
Orchestra is critical tol I as she "is leading the orchestra in over 100 perfonnances everyyear," 
but again submits no new evidence supporting this contention on second motion. Rather, in her motion 
brief she refers us to previously submitted letters of recommendation and support to conoborate her 
assertion. As we have already reviewed and considered this evidence, we will not address it again in 
this proceeding. Absent the submission of new evidence, the Petitioner has not met the requirements 
for a motion to reopen or shown that she has performed in a leading or critical role forl I 
In order to meet the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner must 
show both that she has played in a leading or critical role for an organization and that the organization 
has a distinguished re utation. As previously discussed, she has not shown that she served in a leading 
or a critical role for Thus while we acknowledge that she has submitted new evidence 
relating t ~--~ s reputation, we need not address whether or not this documentation establishes 
that the organization has a distinguished reputation. 5 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remunerationforservices, in relation to others in thefield. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims for the first time on second motion that she meets this criterion and submits 
evidence related to her salary and non-salaried compensation from her employment withl I 
Here we note that a post-appellate motion to reopen is not the proper forum to advance new claims of 
eligibility that the Petitioner did not advance at any prior stage in the proceeding. We note as well that 
a petitioner abandons issues not raised on appeal. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 
1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the reasons discussed below, 
the evidence submitted by the Petitioner on second motion is insufficient to demonstrate that she meets 
this criterion. 
As it relates to her compensation, Petitioner provides an employment verification letter fromD 
c::Jand a copy of her 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. She asserts that, in addition to her 
$48,800 salary, she receives non-salaried compensation totaling $17,760. 6 She claims therefore that 
her "total equivalent yearly compensation/remuneration in 2017 was about $66,640." ( emphasis 
in original.) The Form W-2 and employment verification letter establish that the Petitioner 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad,429U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding that "courts and agencies are not required to make findings on 
issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach.") 
6 She calculates this remuneration by assuming that she will be on tour for 24 weeks, working 7 days per week, and 
receiving3 meals per day at a value of$20permeal. 
3 
commanded a salary of $48,800 at the time her petition was filed. The employment verification letter 
confirms that she received "non-salaried compensation, including board (2 to 4 meals each day, plus 
snacks and beverages, adjusted according to touring and performing schedules)." However, the 
Petitioner provides no independent corroborative evidence to support her assertion that the total value 
of her non-salaried compensation was $17,760 in 2017. The employment verification letter does not 
provide a dollar value for board, and the record lacks other evidence such as receipts, or other relevant 
materials, establishing that she earned this additional remuneration resulting in total compensation of 
$66,640 as claimed. The Petitioner must resolve this incongruity in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988.) In the absence of evidence resolving whether the Petitioner earned $48,800 or$66,640in 2017, 
the record is insufficient to allow for a comparison of her salary or remuneration with that of others in 
her field, or to otherwise establish that she has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in her field. 7 
For the foregoing reasons, the new documentation submitted on second motion does not overcome our 
previous decision, finding that evidence submitted on first motion did not demonstrate her eligibility 
for the additional criteria. 
In addition, we will dismiss the motions because they do not include "a statement about whether or 
not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, 
if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C), 
(a)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The assertions made by the Petitioner on motion do not establish that our previous decision was based 
an incorrect application oflaw or policy. In addition, the new evidence submitted on motion does not 
overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility for 
this classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
7 We note that thePetitioneralso provides salaiy documentation for others in the field. We ha vereviewed this evidence, 
but do not discuss it here as she has not established the salaiy or remuneration with which this evidence should be 
compared. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-P-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a trek and mountain expedition leader, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. In addition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents additional documentation and a brief: arguing that he satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria, that he will continue to work in his area of expertise, and that he will 
substantially benefit the United States. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
Matter of A-P-S-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Sherpa and mountain guide who has climbed Mt. Everest and performed a role in 
a movie. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contains evidence that 
the Petitioner served as a managing director for a leading trekking and mountaineering agency in 
Nepal. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the leading or critical role 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter of A-P-S-
A. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner argues that he "met his burden to show that the ten regulatory criteria do not readily 
apply to his occupation and that the evidence he submitted is comparable to show his national and 
international recognition for his work in his field." Specifically, the Petitioner clams that he provided 
evidence "from multiple sources to explain the difficulties elite Sherpas encounter in being recognized 
nationally and internationally for their extraordinary and incredibly dangerous work." The regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to 
his occupation. 1 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included 
is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).2 
Although the Petitioner offered documentary evidence relating to the life, history, and overview of 
Sherpas, as well as the risks and dangers, the regulatory requirement for the submission of comparable 
evidence is whether the criteria "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his evidence establishes that the criteria 
do not readily apply to Sherpas and mountain guides and why he cannot offer evidence that meets at 
least three of the criteria. In addition, the Petitioner's claim that Sherpas face difficulties in receiving 
national or international recognition for their work does not necessarily show that Sherpas cannot 
fulfill at least three criteria. Moreover, the decision that a petitioner received national or international 
recognition is conducted in a final merits determination after at least three criteria are satisfied. See 
Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Furthermore, as discussed later, the Petitioner claimed to meet three criteria without the submission of 
comparable evidence, including published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original 
contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). In fact, the Petitioner asserts to only satisfying the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) through comparable evidence, discussed below. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
show that Sherpas or mountain guides cannot present evidence relating to the other criteria, such as 
memberships under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation 
that fulfills at least three is not evidence that he could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did 
not establish that he qualifies for an additional criterion, as well as other criteria, through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
In addition, the Petitioner's counsel lists 12 individuals with corresponding receipt numbers and claims 
that "USCIS has approved extraordinary petitions for the following clients of our firm" and"[ e Jach of 
these individuals relied on the use of comparable evidence to establish their eligibility for an El I 
immigrant visa." However, each petition is reviewed on its own merits. Further, we are not bound by 
decisions of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 
2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). Moreover, Counsel did not demonstrate that the issues in 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 
Matter of A-P-S-
those cases were strikingly similar to the Petitioner's case, including the application of comparable 
evidence. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided a letter of appreciation from I f reflecting that he received the 2015 
' award for his "outstanding work in being able to portray Nepal in the 
in~t_e_rn_a_t-io_n_a_l_s_c-en_e_'_' ~for demonstrating "a great valor in the recently film I I produced by 
Hollywood wherein, your co-stars role as an accomplished climber is absolutely awesome." In 
addition, the Petitioner references a letter from I I chairman of I I 
c=J, who indicated that the award is granted "every two years to exceptional individuals who have 
made major contributions to tourism in the country" and "[s]uch individuals should have done highly 
recognized work on a national level for more than 5 (Five) years." On appeal, the Petitioner offers 
previously submitted letters who confirmed his receipt of the award and claimed that "such prestigious 
award which is granted for renowned person on tourism sector though there were many summiteers" 
and "regarded as one of the most prestigious awards in this sector." 
This regulatory criterion requires the prizes or awards to be nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 4 
Although the letters refer to the award as "prestigious," they do not show that the field recognizes the 
award as a national or international award for excellence. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not offer supporting evidence, such as widespread media coverage of the award in major 
newspapers or other evidence showing the award's recognition for excellence in the field. 5 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that "the national prominence of the award is self-evident from the 
fact that it was awarded to [him] by Nepal's Ministry of Tourism, a national government position" 
(emphasis in original). Further,! !indicated that "[t]he selection committee is coordinated 
by the secretary of ministry of the Nepal Government and is awarded in [the] presence of the Minister 
of Tourism." Government-based prizes and awards, however, do not automatically demonstrate 
national recognition of them for excellence in the field. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether 
the Petitioner received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field. Here, while the Minister of Tourism in Nepal coordinates and presents the 'I I I f' the Petitioner did not establish his overall field's recognition of the award. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 Id (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
5 We note that even though the Petitioner submitted over 25 articles as eligibility for the published material criterion, none 
of the articles mentioned him receiving the award. 
4 
Matter of A-P-S-
Accordingly the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains properly certified translations of two articles, including the title, date, and author, 
reflecting published material about the Petitioner in major Nepali publications. As such, the Petitioner 
demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he 
has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "has influenced the field of mountaineering by applying his highly 
technical mountaineering skills in the context of climate change research, thereby improving overall 
the body of scientific knowledge for other climbers." He references a letter from I I 
founder and president of I I who stated that the Petitioner "has made major 
contributions and changes to the field of mountaineering by using his extraordinary skills in a unique 
way to improve and augment the world's knowledge of climate change" and his "influence on 
mountaineering and glacier research via the application of his expert technical skills on Mount Everest 
goes well beyond service to any client or single expedition." However,! I did not provide 
specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made original contributions and how 
they are considered by the field to be of major significance. Instead,! I made broad, 
general statements without identifying the Petitioner's "extraordinary skills" and how they have 
influenced mountaineering and glacier research. Moreover, having a diverse, extraordinary, or unique 
skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and abilities to impact the field 
at a significant level. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that as a technical advisor on the film,! I he developed 
processes that will continue to be used in filmmaking at high altitude for many years to come. 
Specifically,! I indicated that the Petitioner represented all Sherpa mountaineers and was 
a script and climbing advisor to the film's production team and "[t]he processel [the Pritioner] 
developed during the making of this film will forever influence future filmmaking on ' Again, 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
Matter of A-P-S-
.__ _____ _,!did not identify the Petitioner's "processes" and describe how they are already 
considered majorly significant in the field. Instead,! I speculates on the prospective and 
possible significance in future filmmaking rather than how the Petitioner's contributions already 
qualify in the field of expertise of mountaineering. 
Similarly, the Petitioner ar=es that "his social justice initiatives" in "building the first water supply 
in his natal village, I I where water was previously carried by children on foot" meets this 
criterion. Although I I indicated that the Petitioner assisted in the "development and 
construction of a gravity-fed water supply system that supplies running water to every home in 
I I" he did not explain how working on a water supply system represents an original 
contribution in the field of mountaineering, nor did he show the major significance of the contribution. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that he "has made further original contributions to mountaineering in 
the context of climate change research through his osition as the Sherpa-Scientist Initiative (SSI 
trainee" and references screenshots from and 
Although the screenshot from.__ ______ __, briefly mentions the Petitioner as the SSI 
trainee, it does not discuss what the Petitioner contributed to SSI and how it is viewed by the field as 
being majorly significant. Similarly, the screenshot fromj I credits the Petitioner 
for the photographs but makes no mention of his contributions and how they have influenced the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that his assistance tol I the I I amputee 
and the I I amputee from any country to summit Mr. Everest, qualifies for this criterion. 
He submits a letter from I I who praised the Petitioner as "an extraordinary mountain guide" 
and "has[] patience when climbing with people who has [a] lack of physical abilities and skills." The 
Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how his work with I I constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. While honorable, the Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his work impacted the overall field rather an individual. 8 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that his "[ s ]earch and rescue is a specialized mountaineering skill that 
is original because only a select, elite group of mountaineers are able to perform search and rescue" 
and refers to numerous recommendation letters. However, almost all of his recommendation letters 
specified on appeal simply mention the Petitioner's engagement in rescue missions without showing 
how they constitute original contributions of major significance in the field. For instance, the letters 
briefly stated that the Petitioner "is active in mountain rescue missions around the Himalaya~ I I, "played huge vital roles in mountain rescue missions around the Himalayas"c=J 
§ "has been involved in several rescue missions around the Himalayas" I O O I 
'played [a] huge roll [sic] in mountain rescue mission around the [H]imalayas" I I 
nd "is playing vital role to rescue on natural disasters at Himalayan region" I I 
7 According to'-------~ SSI "was launched in the Nepalese Himalaya to understand glacial lake gro~ih and 
potential flooding hazards" to "train Sherpas in local communities about hazard mitigation and how to conduct in-situ 
research in the Nepalese Himalaya." 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
6 
Matter of A-P-S-
Although the letters indicated the Petitioner's involvement in rescue missions, they do not contain 
specific, detailed information explaining how his contributions have been of major significance in the 
field.9 Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to 
the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 12 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the 
petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
9 While the Petitioner also submitted a letter from~ ______ _,, who provided details regarding two rescue 
missions, he did not explain how they represent contributions of major significance in the field. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in palt 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. we need not 
consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
7 
Matter of A-P-S-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-P-S-, ID# 3625747 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-A-N-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architect, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b) (1) (A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b) (1) (A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets three of the evidentiary 
criteria in addition to the one criterion that the Director concluded that he met. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b) (1) (A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) The alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (2). The implementing regulation 
Matter ofM-A-N-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) (3) (i)­
(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about him relating to his work, 
display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, and his leading or critical role for organizations 
having a distinguished reputation. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he 
does not meet the initial evidence requirements. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record contains evidence which establishes that the Petitioner was a member of two teams which 
received awards for the restoration of historic buildings in his native Romania. Specifically, a letter 
and other supporting documents from the Petitioner's employer at the time, the architectural firm 
I I verify that he was one of nine team members who participated in the restoration 
of the chur~h of I I monastery. The letter from the project mana er of the restoration project 
also indicates that the team was awarded first rize at the 2013 Restoration Exhibition by 
the~---------------~----.------------~ for their 
work. This letter, supported by pages from,__ __ ___, website and a copy of the association's 
magazine, indicates that the I lmonastery project was 1 of 63 entrants judged by a panel of 
experts at the exhibition. In addition, other evidence establishes that the Petitioner was also a team 
member on a second historical restoration project completed by ~-------____,which was 
2 
Matter ofM-A-N-
awarded third place in the 2016 edition o~~------~lexhibition, this time as one of29 projects 
entered. 
The evidence described above demonstrates the Petitioner's receipt of awards for excellence in his 
field as part of a team, but it does not sufficiently establish the national or international recognition of 
these awards. Notably, all of the evidence concerning the awards originates from I land its 
members, and there is no evidence ofrecognition of them, such as widespread media attention, in the 
broader professional community or the general public at the national or international level. We 
therefore disagree with the Director and find that the evidence is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner asserts on ajpeal that the materials referred to above on the I !website and in the 
2014 edition of I magazine show that he meets this criterion. There are several elements 
which must be established under this criterion in order for evidence to qualify. First, the material must 
be about the foreign national. The article in the magazine is about the 20131 I 
Exhibition, as it covers the date and location, the number of projects exhibited, and the names of the 
judges on the awards panel. Even when describing the full list of awards presented, the article does 
not mention the winning team's individual members, but only the company name. Therefore, although 
this publication appears to be a professional publication, thereby meeting the second requirement 
under this criterion, the material is not about the Petitioner and his work. 
The same can be said regarding the website materials about the 2013 and 2016.__ _____ ____. 
Exhibitions. They include much of the same information as the magazine article, and the section 
regarding the 2016 exhibition also does not name individual members of the prize-winning teams. 
Accordingly, we find that the evidence does not establish that this criterion has been met. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In support of its claim under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a document titled "Ranking List 
of Admitted Candidates" from the University of~-------------~ in I I 
Romania. This list shows the Petitioner's name at the top with the highest score for the September 
2009 session. In addition, a page from the university's website is submitted, showing two drawings 
under a section titled "Retrospective Admission 2009" for the Faculty of Architecture, Conservation 
and Restoration of Architecture specialization. We must first note that neither the website nor the 
drawings themselves identify the artist who created the drawings, nor do they include any indication 
that the drawings are the work of the student with the highest admission grade. Although a letter from 
a former classmate of the Petitioner includes a link to the website and states that the drawings are the 
Petitioner's, the classmate does not explain how he became aware of this information. We note that 
he states that he has known the Petitioner since 2013, four years after the Petitioner submitted the 
3 
Matter ofM-A-N-
drawings as part of his application. The evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that the work 
displayed on the website is the Petitioner's. 
Also, the regulation requires that the foreign national's work be displayed at an artistic exhibition or 
showcase. While this webpage contains additional drawings, presumably from other students who 
were admitted to the university's school of architecture, it also contains tabs referring to information 
about the university, including faculty, admissions, and other departments. This evidence does not 
demonstrate that the website for the University o±1 ~ is an artistic 
exhibition or showcase. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in 
organizations or establishments that have 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) a leading or critical role for 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded in her decision that although letters from the Petitioner's employers, 
professors, and colleagues showed that he was important to his employers, they did not establish that 
he played a leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the authors of the letters are 
"experts [sic] architects and university professors that represent the highest authority in the field." 
However, while the stature of the letter writers might have an impact on the overall reputation of the 
organization that employs them, it is not relevant to the issue of the Petitioner's role for those 
organizations. The writers praise the Petitioner's talent and skills, and predict a successful career for 
him, but none suggest that he has played a leading or critical role for his employers or the university 
he attended. 
In addition, although the evidence regarding the awards received by.__ _______ _. at the 
I !exhibitions is sufficient to establish its distinguished reputation, the evidence regarding the 
..... _____ 
1,.....I did not demonstrate that that organization meets this requirement. Accordingly, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Upon review of all of the evidence of record, we find that the Petitioner has not met the initial 
requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of acclaim and standing in his field required for the classification 
sought. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
4 
Matter ofM-A-N-
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-A-N-, ID# 3617566 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-M-K-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research associate in radiology and radiological science, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria, has demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim, and shown that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of S-M-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia V. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal V. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as a faculty member and research associate in 
radiology and radiological science at the I I university School of Medicine. As the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the 
initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), respectively. As the record supports those findings, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled these criteria. Specifically, the record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner has performed peer review for publications and conferences and has authored scholarly 
articles appearing in such professional journals as Clinical Cancer Research and Neoplasia. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the published material and original 
contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v), respectively. In addition, as discussed in 
greater detail below, we find the record shows that the Petitioner has made original contributions to 
understanding and advancing I I that are of major significance in the field. 
2 
Matter of S-M-K-
Accordingly, she has met three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and we will evaluate 
the totality of the documentary evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making her one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has shown her eligibility for this 
classification. 
The Petitioner's resume reflects that she received a Ph.D. in Bioengineering from the University of I lin Germany and a Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering from the New Jersey! I I I The record indicates she has worked as a faculty-level research associate in radiology 
and radiological science at thel !University School of Medicine since 2014. 
The Petitioner has provided evidence that demonstrates she has made original contributions of major 
significance in her field of I I specifically through her innovative use of second 
harmonic generation (SHG) mi1roscory.1 The Petitioner established that her research and newly 
developed software to evaluate distribution have increased the understanding of the tumor 
,___ _____ __. provided insights into I I distribution in cancerous tunqors, and most 
importantly, resulted in more effective delivery of cancer drugs. The record contains documentation 
such as detailed recommendation letters from colleagues and independent experts, articles, and 
requests for future research collaboration, showing the influence of the Petitioner's research. The 
submitted evidence identifies her original contributions in the development ofl I 
methods and improved analysis, and explains how those advancements have significantly impacted 
her field. 
~--------~ director of the Cancer Imaging Research Division at the!,___ ____ _, 
University School of Medicine, attests that the Petitioner has "developed a diagnostic method to detect I I non-invasively using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and" i tis because of [the 
Petitioner] that we now know that it is critical to examine the correlation of ~____,,---,---~and the 
tumor,___ _____ __.as well as the heterogeneous behaviorp of cancer sq that better and more 
effective treatment plans can be formulated for cancer patients." .... L ____ _,j further states that her 
work "has caught the media's attention due to the direct impact of [her] work on improving the 
outcomes for cancer patients." For example, an article titled 1 I 
from Inside Science TV (available at www.insidescience.org) specifically references the Petitioner and 
1 The record indicates that SHG microscopy is a type of optical imaging during which light is shined into a substance and 
only specifically shaped objects (if present) reflect light back at a specific rate; it is based on a nonlinear optical effect 
where it obtains contrast from variations in a specimen's ability to generate second-harmonic light from the incident light. 
3 
Matter of S-M-K-
discusses her work developing a laser technique that will help doctors identify if a patient's cancer is 
likely to spread. 
The record contains additional documentation reflecting covera e of the Petitioner's work in 
rofessional ublications in her field such as an article titled 
'------------------------------~ from Cancer Therapy 
Advisor, an online resource for oncology health care professionals, that discusses the importance of 
her team's findings. The article quotes the Petitioner and refers to her as the lead author of a stud 
Ii h h B . hi h r 1 h h 
and can be 
1ma SHG microsco ." Similar! , an article titled .__ _____________ __. 
'-------------------------' in Breast Cancer Management, a journal 
aimed at oncologists and other health care professionals, reports on the aforementioned study. It notes 
that "[ c ]ancer imaging experts have developed a novel way to analyze the distinctive I I I I in breast tumor tissue to identify whether the cancer has spread." Significantly, it 
discusses the clinical significance of the new diagnostic technique, which uses "advanced microscopes 
equipped with tissue-penetrating laser light to measurel I of the 
tumor." 
~-----~[ a professor with the Clinic of Hematology and Medical Oncology at the University 
Medicine Center of I I and a researcher with the I I Institute of Experimental 
Medicine in Germany, attests that the Petitioner "has opened up an entirely new avenue of research in 
the area of imaging the tumor~------~··" I I notes that in her presentation to the 
World Molecular Imaging Congress, the Petitioner introduced a "non-invasive [MR] based imaging 
technique" along with SHG microscopy in breast cancer I I[.]" Her 
"cutting-edge work" was highlighted at the end of the conference because "this was a significant 
advancement over the then-current methods." 
.__ _______ __.I, the chair of the Cancer Imaging and Metabolism Department at the .... l --~ 
Cancer Center, states the Petitioner "has made several significant scientific contributions that have 
solidified her position as one of the top scientists in the field of cancer imaging research" and 
specifically discusses how her work "is already helping cancer researchers gain a clearer 
understanding of tumor biology and create better treatment regimes." Similarly,! I I I the director of research at the I I Research Institute in Australia, notes 
that the Petitioner's "ground-breaking results" in applying and developing new magnetic resonance 
based methods in clinical and preclinical cancer research "have opened an important doo1av to I 
creating new targeted drugs for the sophisticated evaluation and delivery of cancer treatment." I I scientist emeritus at thd !cancer Institute, attests that the Petitioner's method 
of non-invasive tumor imaging "means fewer invasive biopsies -greatly reducing the opportunity for 
adverse events and lowering the overall cost of treatment." 
Concerning the direct impact of the Petitioner's research on clinical practitioners, .... ! _______ ~ 
an associate professor with the Life Science! !Advanced Research Center atl University in 
Japan, states that the Petitioner's "illumination ofl I in the primary tumor" has a major 
clinical significance because it enables "oncologists (while awaiting new drug compounds) to alter 
4 
Matter of S-M-K-
their treatment regimen for patients today[.]" I I notes that prestigious joum .... a_ls ___ _, 
Neo lasia and PloS One ublished the Petitioner's findings that showed "that areas ofl~,---,---~ 
which in tum affected the transport and distribution ...... ---------.,..-------' in the tumor. He also confirms that she "developed an innovative 
.__ ____ __.software to evaluate the I I in these varying tumor.__ ______ __, 
which is used to visualize and understand drug delivery." I I attests that these critical 
observations have allowed him, as a pharmaceutical scientist, to change the "molecular structure of 
compound[ s ]" to account for thel I 
Importantly, he also identifies several national and international research teams that are using the 
Petitioner's work and her "quantitative technique" to "inform their drug development." As additional 
evidence of the value and current use of her work, the record contains journal articles that show how 
her research has contributed to ongoing developments in her field. For example, they indicate that the 
Petitioner's findings, such as her research on breast and prostate cancer tumors, the effects o 
on thd lof tumors, and the have 
provided critical contributions to research at .__ _______ _. University in China, 
University in Sweden, andl I University. The Petitioner also submitted evidence~o-f-_h_e_r~ 
frequent selection for oral presentations at the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine meetings, farther demonstrating the attention her work has garnered. 
With respect to her scholarly articles, the Petitioner has provided evidence of her authorship of a 
considerable amount of published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished 
professional journals. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the 
citation history and other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is an important indicator 
of the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been 
sustained. In this case, the Petitioner has offered reports from Google Scholar as well as evidence 
documenting that the rate at which her articles have been cited is very high for her field. The number 
of research articles she has coauthored and their unusually high rate of citation are commensurate with 
being among the small percentage at the very top of the field and demonstrate that her publication 
record sets her apart through a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
With regard to her participation as a judge of others' work, the record indicates that the Petitioner has 
reviewed numerous manuscripts for renowned professional publications including, among others, the 
Journal of Medical Physics, the Journal of the American Chemical Society, and the Journal of 
Biomedical Optics. She has also reviewed abstracts for the World Molecular Imaging Congress and 
the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, repeatedly serving as a chairperson at 
such conferences. We find the Petitioner's extensive judging experience, together with the 
achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination that she is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the Petitioner's past contributions, we note that the record reflects significant prospective 
interest in utilizing her expertise in tumor SHG microscopy as part of ongoing research. Specilcally, I 
the record indicates the National Institute of Health awarded a five-year grant I I to the I pniversity .__ _________________ ___, research group, of which the 
5 
Matter of S-M-K-
Petitioner is listed as a co-investigator, to understand and find effective ways to treatl lcancer. 
The submitted evidence also demonstrates how the Petitioner's work developin~ I 
for cancer diagnosis and monitoring treatment is influencing the technological development of ca~ 
research and treatment. I I an engineering manager and chief technology leader atLJ 
Healthcare, affirms that the Petitioner's work "in developing cancer targets that can be non-invasiv~ 
detected in patients and allow continuous monitoring of therapy, complements our work at LJ 
Healthcare that detects early treatment response to breast cancer." Moreover, the Petitioner has 
submitted communications from multiple researchers requesting further information about her 
research and proposing future research collaboration. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability. The totality 
of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that 
she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has documented 
sustained acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise. She therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of S-M-K-, ID# 3180381 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-P-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: JUNE 25, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a field hockey coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as 
required, but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites the evidence submitted previously and contends that he qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of L-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an assistant field hockey coach for the University of I As he has not 
established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following criteria: published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We find that the evidence in the record sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements for these criteria. 
For published material, he submitted an article about him and his work in the field that was 
published in the Irish Times with sufficient evidence indicating that this is the second highest 
circulated newspaper in Ireland. Regarding a leading or critical role, the record contains evidence of 
his role as the eastern developmental officer and chair of the coaching development panel for I I (formerly known as the.__ ________ _.,. In those positions he expanded 
the participation and growth of field hockey in eastern Ireland and played a key role in developing 
the national coaching curriculum set forth by I I As the assistant coach for the 
University ofl I women's field hockey team, he played a critical role in helping the team 
successfully transition into the I l~nd rise in the national rankings. The 
record reflects that these organizations have a distinguished reputation. For high salary, the record 
contains evidence that the Petitioner's salary is high for this position in relation to others in the field 
2 
Matter of L-P-
as shown by documentation from the U.S. Department of Labor. Because the Petitioner has met 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, we will discuss the remaining documentation in 
the context of a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3): see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Here, the Petitioner has shown his eligibility for this classification. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has been featured in published material, has performed a leading 
or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation, and has had a high salary 
relative to others in his field. After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in the final 
merits pursuant to Kazarian, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the 
field. Id. 
For published material, the record contains an article about the Petitioner that was published in the 
Irish Times in 2009 discussing his background in the sport of field hockey and his role as a 
development officer for the I I The record contains evidence of the 
circulation details for the Irish Times, which demonstrates that this article is an indication of the 
Petitioner's national acclaim. 
Regarding his leading or critical roles, the evidence in the record illustrates his roles as a field 
hockey coach and in developing the national coaching programs for Ireland and the United States. 
With respect to his coaching experiences in Ireland,! ~' the strategic development director 
for I I states that in 2007 the Petitioner was named as I I eastern 
development officer. In describing his influence there, ~ notes that this "is a vital role in 
terms of supporting clubs and schools in the province ofc==J which she indicates is "currently 
the largest province in terms of hockey participation with 45 clubs, 212 adult club teams and 65 high 
schools." She adds, "[d]uring his tenure, extremely high participation rates were recorded incl1ding
1 ~h of the girls' club game of 44 percent and growth of the boys' club game of 11 percent." 
l__Jthen attests to his positions as chair of the coaching development panel forl I in 
2011, as a "Head Coach Consultant for the Irish Men's Team and a Specialist Coach for the Irish 
Women's~--------~" These positions demonstrate that the Petitioner has been 
entrusted with overseeing the growth of the sport in a prominent region in Ireland for field hockey 
and that his expertise has been sought out by the Irish I I for the men and women, 
indicating that he has risen to the very top of his field. 
3 
Matter of L-P-
As to his work in developing the national coaching curriculum in Ireland, I I states that the 
Petitioner "was a key person in the development of [their] Coaching Qualifications and Certification 
programs." She adds, "[ w ]ithout his input, the program would not be the success it is today." I I 
I , I the Director General of the I l farther indicates that the 
Petitioner "helped us to develop a coaching and player training curriculum that [is] now the envy of 
the rest of the world." 
.__ ____ __.lalso states that the Petitioner "created an exceptional coaching and core skills DVD for 
hockey coaches and worked tirelessly on la er and coach development, community outreach, and I t Coach Education Manager, similarly states 
that the Petitioner "led the development of.___~ ___ _.Long Term Player Development model, 
drawing on his own experience as an international coach." As an indication that others took notice 
of the Petitioner's work in Ireland , the senior manager of coach education forl I I I and a 1996 ~------~states that she immediately reached out to the Petitioner for 
his assistance in creating the national coaching curriculum in the United States due to his successes 
in Ireland. She indicates that he "developed all the tools and resources in Ireland for the training and 
certification for every level of coaches, from grassroots to High Performance and Olympic Level 
coaches and athletes," noting that "[ t ]his coaching education and certification program is considered 
one of the best in the world." This farther establishes the Petitioner's international acclaim as a field 
hockey coach. 
With respect to his experiences in the United States, the Petitioner highlights his roles in coaching 
and in developing the coaching curriculum for I I. I f, the assistant 
athletic director at the University o±1 I indicates that the University recruited the Petitioner 
to help take its women's field hockey program to a higher level. She states that since the Petitioner's 
time with the program beginning in 2012, "the I ~ave seen their highest [national] ranking at 
I I made thel !tournament for the first time since 2008, [and] earned a regular season 
conference championship in 2013." She adds that the impact he has had on the team is clear due to 
the "success of the team and [the] increase in national profile for the program." The record 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has also been the head coach of al I team. 
Both of these experiences farther establish that the Petitioner has risen to the top of his field. 
Pertaining to his work in develo in the coachin curriculum in the United States 
the Executive Director of the~------------;::::====:::;------ discusses the 
Petitioner's role in improving coaching in the United States. I I states that the I I has 
focused on developing the game of field hockey and improving its "level of competitiveness on the 
world stage." He notes, "[i]n doing so, we have discovered the need to create a uniform system of 
education, training, coaching and a certification program to ensure a high quality level of coaching 
and instruction from volunteer school coaches through the elite level professional and national team 
coaches." I I then indicates, "[t]o accomplish this goal and develop this comprehensive 
program we sought the advice and consultation of [the Petitioner], who experienced incredible 
success in farther developing and advancing the sport of field hockey in several countries including 
South Africa, Venezuela, and Ireland." He also adds, "[t]here really is no one else in the U.S. who 
4 
Matter of L-P-
has the background in developing these types of programs who is also a coach." Similarly, D I I the Director of Coaching Education and Leaming for .__ ______ __, states that the 
Petitioner is one of three individuals who helped create the "standardized coaching curriculum which 
is used throughout the U.S." I I indicates that he "requested [the Petitioner] to be 
involved in the creation of this program due to his successful development of the first standardized 
certification program in Ireland for the '----------~" He notes, "[ w ]hat made his 
certification program unique was that it provided a step-by-step process, with a standardized 
curriculum to be tau~ht through[out] Ireland." He states that they "used his expertise in creating the 
Irish program to help_ I develop a similar standardized program." He indicates that 
after developing the new curriculum, they have run over 35 courses in the United States, with each 
one having approximately 30 registrants. He states that "[t]housands of coaches participate in [the 
coaching clinics] each year." Together with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has 
established that he has risen to the very top of his field with national and international acclaim. 
For salary the record contains a letter from I l the Vice President of the University of I j stating, "[b]ecause [the Petitioner] was so highly regarded, he became one of the highest 
paid Associate Coaches with [the University ofl I and the sport of field hockey." This is 
another indication that the Petitioner has risen to the top of his field. 
For the reasons stated above, the record establishes that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter of L-P-, ID# 1668367 (AAO June 25, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17440615 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a designer.__ ___________ ____. seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates self-employment itj I fashion design from 1997 
until at the date of filing the instant petition in June 2018.1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record confirms that she has been 
al !designer for many years and has displayed her work in national and international! I I I competitions, theatrical performances, and other artistic 
performances. She therefore meets this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this 
criterion was satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets six additional criteria, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues for the first time on appeal that she meets this criterion based on her membership 
in the Union of Designers of USSR,I IFederation,I I Union of Artists, 
Union of Designers, and I I Union of Designers. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that she is a member of an association, and that membership in the association is based on 
1 See the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, which indicates self­
employment as a freelance costume designer between 2016 and 2018 and, previously, with her eponymous design bureau 
between 1997 and 2016. 
2 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Union of Designers of USSR, the Petitioner submitted 
a membership card indicating "Year of becoming a member 1989." Ibis evidence wr accompanied 
by a letter from the former chairman of the union'~ I board,I who describes 
the union as a professional creative association of Soviet designers that was in operation between 1987 
until 1991. He asserts that the association had "very strict selection criteria" whereby "designers were 
accepted based on the results of a creative competition," and that "the selection committee consisted 
of masters of Soviet design, world famous artists, likel t' He asserts as follows: 
[The Petitioner] was admitted to the Union at the end of 1989, her membership card 
number is I I which suggests that in the two and a half years of the Union's 
existence, only a few were selected: there were hundreds of thousands of professional 
designers in the USSR, and everyone wanted to join the Union. Thus, membership in 
the Union was a confirmation of the high level, exceptional abilities and existing 
achievements. 
Here,I l's statements are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the Union of Designers 
of USSR required prospective members to demonstrate "outstanding achievements" as a condition of 
admission or that recognized national or international experts judged the outstanding achievements for 
membership with the organization. I I mentions that the Union of Designers of USSR 
considered factors such as "a high level as artists, but also have implementation in industrial products, 
their own unique developments." This statement is broad and is not accompanied by any supporting 
evidence regarding the Union of Designers of USSR or its membership requirements, such its 
constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the process for becoming a member, 
the selection criteria, and the qualifications required for the reviewers of the selection committee. 
In addition, regarding the Petitioner's membership in the.__ _________ __,Federation , 
I I Union of Artists, Union of Designers, andl I Union of Designers, the record does not 
contain documentation establishing the Petitioner's membership in any of those organizations or their 
official membership criteria. A letter from the Russian! !Federation to the 
Acting Mayor of the City o~ I dated 2013, requesting "free usage" of a premises "as the creative 
workshop of [the Petitioner] in the name of the regional non-governmental organization! I 
Union of Artists," states that the Petitioner "has beenmakingl I I I of Russia" but does not confirm her membership in either organization. Thus, regarding 
the aforementioned organizations, the Petitioner has not submitted the primary initial evidence 
required to meet this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based her work as a costume designer 
forl I On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that because "an I I 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in 
original research) . 
3 
designer's work is one of the components of success fo,....r_t_h ________ ._._._t_h...._ __ __., 
becomes a member of the team in [the] same way asL-_____________ -r""........, ........ .....," 
As an example, she relates that her work requires her "to meet and design sketches with the .__ __ .... 
attend their training, consider the music that will be used in the performance , etc." She claims, 
therefore, that selection of her work b~ I who can test first hand the 
designers expertise" constitutes "team membership." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
being selected to design costumes by individual! I conveyed membership 
in an association consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner maintains that this evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to her occupation. 3 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the membership criterion is not applicable to her occupation. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence 
that meets at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not 
meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a fashion designer could not do so. In fact, as indicated 
above, the Petitioner claims to meet six other criteria. Further, the Petitioner did not explain why the 
other criteria, such as judging and original contributions, do not apply to her occupation. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As a preliminary matter, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner froml~----­
The record reflects that this was published in 2020, subsequent to the filing of the petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). As 
this article cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate 
whether it otherwise satisfies the regulatory requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided several articles that contain photographs of the Petitioner•_d ~---­
includin articles from Cosmopolitan .com dated 2018 titled .....,... __________________ ___._.__ _ __, Thedail beast.com dated 2012 titled ~ 
.__ _______________ __," and from.__ _________ ..... However, these 
articles do not mention the Petitioner and therefore are not about her. Articles that are not about the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
4 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ 
at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the article from! I is missing the date of publication. 
Additional articles mention the Petitioner by name but are not about her relating to her work. For 
instance, the record contains a screenshot of part of an article dated 1997 from the print publication 
Where Moscow titled ! !' The article, 
which is in the "Shopping" section of the publication rovides that the Petitioner's design company 
presented a collection of bathin suits at the id I In interview dated 2000 
from Kommersant.ru, .__ __________ __. mentions that her costumes are made by the 
Petitioner. Similarly, in an interview dated 2015 from Kazan2015.com, I I I I states that the Petitioner has been her personal designer for several years for solo 
and duet performances. An article dated 2003 from Itogi.ru quotes the Petitioner, among others, in a 
discussion of fashion trends in different! I over many decades. The Petitioner discusses some 
recentl ~esign challenges and successes. As mentioned previously, the 
aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner but are about the resentation of the Petitioner's 
swimwear collection, fashion trends in .__ ____________________ ____. 
.__ ___ __,I As previously discussed, articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the article from Kazan2015.com does not include the author of the material. 
Moreover, the record contains two articles about the Petitioner related to her fashion destn work dated 
2017. In those articles, from Zhizn.ru and Life.ru, the Petitioner discusses herl desi~ 
as part of a team at thel I and highlights with individual L___J 
However, the article from Zhizn.ru does not include the author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence, at the time of filing or in response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), to establish that any of the aforementioned publications 
qualify as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 6 The purpose of the RFE 
is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been 
established. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8). In this case, the Director advised the Petitioner in the RFE that 
additional documentary evidence would be needed to establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy 
the requirement that the material be published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. Specifically, the Director advised that such evidence could include the circulation (on­
line and/or in print) for the publications in which the material appeared and the intended audience of 
the publication. 
The Petitioner did not acknowledge this request or submit the requested evidence in response to the 
RFE, but now submits evidence pertaining to the circulation of Cosmopolitan.com and 
Thedailybeast.com. When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an 
evidentiary deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Similarly, 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (instructing that 
evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should 
establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended 
audience of the publication) . 
5 
on appeal the Petitioner submits a portion of an article dated 1997 from Marie Clare Russia titled D I I that contains a photograph of a swimsuit with a caption identifying the Petitioner as 
its designer and its price. This article is primarily about "what to wear, how to be protected from the 
sunlight, where to spend a vacation," and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. The author of the 
material was not identified. There is no documentary evidence showing the distribution of Marie 
Clare Russia relative to other industry publications to demonstrate that the magazine qualifies as a 
major media. Regardless, as the Petitioner had the opportunity to submit the 1997 Marie Clare Russia 
article in response to the Director's RFE we will not consider this evidence offered for the first time 
on appeal. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that the fact that her costume designs have appeared in fashion magazines 
and broadcasts ofl I is comparable to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As previously discussed, the Petitioner did not show that at least three of the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to her occupation, she did not explain why she has not submitted evidence 
that would satisfy at least three of the criteria, and she did not establish why the evidence she has 
included is truly comparable to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore , the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that she may use comparable evidence to demonstrate her eligibility. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including 
through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Within her response to the Director's RFE the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I founder 
of the inaugural 2020....._ _______ _. who states that the Petitioner "was invited by the 
organizing committee as a consultant and a member of the panel tasked with selecting initial 
contestants in 2019 to 2020" for the I I category. He asserts that she is qualified for this 
position "as a leading expert in this field, whose costumes for many years have been ... highly 
appreciated by judges and experts .... " At the outsed ts letter indicates that the Petitioner 
"was tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019 to 2020." The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). As she filed his ~etition in June 2018l 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any judging she performed for the 20201 __________ _ 
occurred prior to or at the time of her initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only 
been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the 
work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Here, the letter does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner actually completed any judging tasks for the 20201 I 8 In addition, 
the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed as a 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
6 
judge for the 2020 '--------~ including showing how many or which contestants she 
reviewed, and how many or which initial contestants she selected for the 202ol._ _______ __. 
I I category. Further, we note that the statement does not bear the letterhead of the 
contest's company or the company's contact information. 
On a eal the Petitioner rovides a letter froml l president of Russian Children's 
'--~----~---____.who states he has known the Petitioner since 1989, "when she worked at 
the..........,_ __ ~Models House and I headed thel I department in ... Komsomolskaya Pravda." 
He provides that "when we had the idea to revive the International I I Fair, we invited 
[the Petitioner] to the organizing committee of the fair." He asserts that the Petitioner "was responsible 
for the region of Siberia and the Far East of the USSR, and was also a member of the jury of the 
competition for young fashion designers (regional in Siberia and the Far East) and finals, which took 
place inl I and also was a member of the jury of the all-Union beauty contest 'Beauty 
of Russia."' He farther claims that "[a]fter the advertising campaign I O I we continued our 
cooperation with [the Petitioner] and invited her to our other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." 
Merely submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge of the work of others 
without evidence showing when and who she judged and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. For instance, 's letter does not indicate when, in fact, 
the Petitioner performed as a judge for in the International.__ _____ ~Fair's regional and final 
competitions for young fashion designers, and the all-Union beauty contest "Beauty of Russia." The 
record also does not show, for instance, how many or which rgjonal and final Joung fashion designers 
whose work she reviewed and selected for the International._ _______ _._ Fair, or the names and 
the specific assessments of the beauty contestants she evaluated for the "Beauty of Russia" contest. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this instance, the 
record does not include supporting documentation demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge for any of the aforementioned contests. Finall eal the Petitioner submits an article 
dated 2017 from Life.ru titled ' that quotes the Petitioner, 
fashion historian.__ ______ __, and others expressing largely unfavorable opinions after the 
official presentation of the Russian national I I The article does not establish, 
however, that the Petitioner performed a role in judging the designs for the uniforms before their 
official presentation to the public. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 9 For 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (finding that 
7 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work and documentary evidence of her 
fashion design work for various clients. 1° For instance,! l a fashion designer who 
indicates she has consulted with the Petitioner, states that the Petitioner "has her own style that many 
designers tried (but f il o copy."I I a fashion designer and colleague of the 
Petitioner's from th Fashion Academ rovides that the Petitioner's i--'-----''-'------,.---~ 
.__ __________________________ __,,....__ __ --,. __ __,, a fashion 
designer and colleague of the Petitioner's from the Textile Institute i_~ __ ___. calls the Petitioner 
"an incredible pattern maker" whose "artistry in costume design elevates her work to the level of Art, 
especially her hand dyed pieces." While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of 
her work, the record does not show how the Petitioner's costume design had a majorly significant 
impact in the field, has significantly influenced the work of other designers, or otherwise equates to an 
original artistic contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, in a joint letterJ I indicate that they met the 
Petitioner as performing soloists for I ~heater for which the Petitioner 
was the set designer and costume designer. They indicate that the Petitioner subsequently designed 
the costumes in which they won a.__ ___________ __. I I, al I 
'-----~~n Israel, states that she has known the Petitioner for twenty years, and that her team has 
used the Petitioner's "incredible art designs in ou .__ _________________ _. She 
asserts that the Petitioner's "amazing talent highl1 contributed and upgraded our presentation." 
.__ _____ _., anl Jwho has known the Petitioner since childhood, 
asserts that the Petitioner's costume designs helped her and her partner to win Gold Medals in the 
19941 I The record does not establish, however, how the Petitioner's costume designs 
are considered an original contribution of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than perhaps 
impacting thel I for whom the Petitioner designed costumes. The record 
does not demonstrate sufficiently that her original work for her clients constitutes original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather 
than limited to a single client or company. 
MoreoverJ I an.__ ________________ __,, indicates that she has 
known the Petitioner since childhood and that the Petitioner designed her costumes at the junior and 
professional level, including for her I I victories at the 1998 and 20021 I She 
asserts "the whole world recognized 01jr uuiaue stv)e in costumes, which [the Petitioner] created for 
us, our style determined the fashion in_ I for a decade." I I does not provide 
specific examples of how the Petitioner's costume designs have significantly impacted the field or 
otherwise constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
10 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
8 
Further a former vice-chairman of the'-----------,----------=-" ____ ___._1=·nc.cd=ic""''a""""t""'esc........c.th=.at he has known the Petitioner smce 1992, and that she has designed 
costumes for thel I He states that the 
._P_e-ti-ti_o_n-er-"h_a_s_d_on_e_a_l_,ot to promote I I working with I I from many countries of the 
world."I I does not provide specific examples of how the original fashion designs by the 
Petitioner have significantly impacted others in her field or otherwise constitute original artistic 
contributions of "major significance" in fashion design. 
The record also contains a letter fro~ .... ------~I a coach of the.__ _________ ___. I O ,lwho provides that "for man ears, the Petitioner has been a leading designer of 
the performance outfits for the which "dictates the 
fashion for We note that 's statement does not bear the letterhead of the .-------'----...._ _____ _._ ___ -,-o_r__,,th_Jec=J' s contact information. Regardless,D 
.__ ___ ~ does not specify which of the Petitioner's designs equate to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. The documentation submitted does not demonstrate that her specific 
work for the.__ __________________ __. equates to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. As previously discussed, the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the 
field" rather than limited to a single client or company. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml lthe artistic director ofL.r----------,, 
who indicates he has known the petitioner since their collaboration in 1992 on ..... t.:.::h;:;.:e:..i.... _ __, ___ ~ 
.__ ______ ......, for which the Petitioner was the costume and set designer. .__ ___ _.comments 
on the Petitioner's work for that theater production, but he does not provide specific examples of how 
the costume or set designs from the event have significantly impacted the field at large or otherwise 
constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. He provides that "[t]he 
video version of the performance ... is still sold worldwide." In addition, the record contains 
screenshots from an unidentified library website showing that the 1999 videorecording ofl I 
.__ ________ ...,eaturing the I I with set designs by the Petitioner is available. 
However, the documentation submitted does not show that the Petitioner's design work from thatD 
production has impacted the field at a level indicative of an original artistic contribution of "major 
significance" in the design field. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
The preceding references discuss their collaborations with the Petitioner and her skills as a costume 
designer and set designer, but they do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's original 
work equates to original contributions of "major significance" in the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att 'y Gen., 7 45 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D. C. Dist. 1990). Absent detailed examples of how the Petitioner's 
design work has been of major significance in the field, the reference letters do not sufficiently 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that fashion desi ne is among the "f,mous names" in her 
field of expertise. The Petitioner provides that 'was inducted into the[ l 
Hall of Fame for her desi n/artistic contributions to~--~ and "designed far lesd,__ ____ _.r 
t-------.--------~-.L..:.:th:.:::a=n;:;_i_:t:.:::hc.::..,e Petitioner.]" Therefore, the Petitioner asserts that "if ~---~ s contributions to th ~----~ of costume design is significant enough to warrant 
induction into a Hall of Fame, [the Petitioner's] contributions are even more significant in light of her 
experience." However, the Petitioner does not provide specific examples of how her costume designs 
have impacted the field in the same manner asl I the individual to whom the Petitioner 
compares herself, or were otherwise majorly significant to the field. For example, the submitted 
documentation does not show the extent of the Petitioner's influence on other artists in the field or that 
the field has somehow changed as a result of her original work. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner must demonstrate her 
authorship of "scholarly" articles. Outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written 
for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship.12 Evidence of scholarly articles published in professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in 
print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and identify who the intended audience of the 
publication is.13 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts for the first time that she satisfies this criterion based on an article 
dated 1995 published in the print magazine Stas Russia. She asserts that "[g]iven the celebrity of its 
creator, the publication would have been a major media at the time and as such, [the Petitioner's] 
article in the same should be treated as authorship of an article in her field" under this criterion. 
First, we note that the article translation does not identify the Petitioner as the author. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not assert or establish the scholarly nature of the published article. The article does not 
appear to qualify as scholarly, in that it is a popular article offering general information on the Soviet 
and Russian fashion design industry, rather than an article written in a technical manner that presumes 
considerable knowledge of fashion design terminology. In addition, the limited information about the 
publication contained on its cover indicates its subject matter includes "All the stars" in "Music -
Cinema -Fashion -Theater -Literature -Art -Media -Night Life," with such topics as "Mystery 
of the Premier's Power," "20 Russian Beauties," "Confession," and "Who Does the Champion Sleep 
With?" Thus, the publication indicates its articles are intended to be accessible to the general public. 
The evidence, therefore, does not establish that the intended audience of the Petitioner's articles is 
"learned persons" in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not addressed the other element of this 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id. 
10 
criterion by submitting evidence to establish that Stas Russia is a professional or other trade 
publication, or that it has the circulation to be considered a major medium. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to membership, published material, 
judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles. Although she claims eligibility for one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.14 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17401897 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a scientific researcher , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a ostdoctoral scholar in the field of biochemist 
he studies.__ _________________________ __,. _ __. He received his 
bachelor of science jj biotechnology and his master of science in.__ __ ___,biotechnology from the 
University orl.__ _ __,_ Iran in 2008 and 2010, respective![' and his doctor of philosophy in! I I I developmental biology from the University of_ I in 2017. At 
the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as a postdoctoral scholar at the University oft I I ] 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer-reviewed a 
manuscript for The Journal of Physical Chemistry. In addition, the record contains evidence that the 
Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Developmental Cell, RNA, 
and FEES Letters. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets four additional criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 See the Petitioner's cuniculum vitae and Fonn 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. 
2 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criterion related 
to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's finding that he does not meet this criterion or 
offer additional arguments . Therefore , we consider this issue to be abandoned . See Sepulveda v. US Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011 , 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his membership in the American Chemical Society (ACS) and 
his claimed membership in Iran's National Elites Foundation (INEF) meet the regulatory requirements 
of this criterion. 3 In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
As it relates to ACS, the Petitioner provided an email dated October 2019 from two representatives of 
ACS Publications, offering him "a complimentary year of membership to the [ACS]" for his 
contributions as "a new reviewer that has recently completed two or more reviews for an ACS 
Journal." The Petitioner also provided a copy of his undated ACS membership certificate, which states 
that the Petitioner is "a Member of the [ACS], entitled to all rights and privileges associated therewith 
as specified in the Constitution, By-Laws, and Regulations of the Society." The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements 
are required for membership in ACS, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts as follows: 
I was invited to join the ACS for my outstanding contributions to scientific peer review 
as judged by independent journal editors .... This special complimentary membership 
is in contrast to regular membership of the ACS which requires membership fees and 
a set of minimum professional criteria. It is reasonable to expect that only a small 
percentage of scientists qualify for this distinct class of ACS affiliation; otherwise the 
regular membership criteria would be meaningless. 
The Petitioner's statement, however, is not accompanied by any supporting evidence regarding the 
ACS or its membership requirements, such as information from its website regarding membership and 
the application process, or its constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the 
selection criteria and process for becoming a member, including, as the Petitioner asserts, at a "special 
complimentary membership" level. Regardless, the documentation submitted does not demonstrate 
how having "completed two or more reviews for an ACS Journal" constitutes outstanding 
achievements. Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that membership with ACS 
represents outstanding achievements and is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he meets this criterion based on his claimed membership in INEF. The 
record shows that in 2004 the Beneficiary received a silver medal in an international high school 
student competition, the I I The Petitioner also provided 
an award certificate from INEF, which states, in pertinent part: 
3 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on his membership in the New York Academy 
of Sciences and his appointment to the Tran Biology Olympiad National Steering Committee. On appeaL the Petitioner 
claims eligibility based on the associations mentioned above and does not address these entities. 
4 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
In recognition of your success in achieving the Silver medal of the~------~ I I in the year [2004] ... the scientific prize of the National Elites 
Foundation of the first class is awarded to you for your education in the Bachelor's 
level. 
The evidence includes a Wikipedia entry regarding the INEF. We note that Wikipedia is an online 
open source collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its 
content. 5 The Petitioner also provided the INEF bylaws on "Designation as Elites and Top Talents," 
which state at Article 2, "Definitions of Elite and Top Talent," in pertinent part, as follows: 
"Elite" according to Article 4 of the Foundation's Statute refers to a prominent and 
competent person whose impact on the development and expansion of country's 
science, art, technology, culture, and administration is tangible, and whose intelligence, 
creativity, entrepreneurship, and intellectual genius in development and expansion of 
knowledge and innovation accelerates the growth and development of science and the 
upliftment of country's human society. 
In addition, the INEF bylaws at Article 4, "Criteria for Designation as Top Talents and Elites," indicate 
that "[i]ndividuals meeting one of the following criteria are recognized as top talent or elite .... As 
Elite, the winners of the first to third places at authentic I I with the 
approval of the Ministry of Education." First, we note that the INEF bylaws submitted do not 
specifically address the membership requirements of the INEF, and the record does not contain 
evidence establishing the Petitioner's membership in INEF at the time of filing the petition in August 
2020.6 Even assuming that designation as "Elite" confers membership in the INEF, the Petitioner has 
not established how winning "first to third places at authentic! • I' 
represents outstanding achievements in the field, or that membership with INEF is judged by 
recognized national or international exf erts. As indicated above, the bylaws reflect that designation 
as "Elite" based on top placements at I requires the approval of the Ministry of 
Education. The Petitioner did not provide farther evidence showing that they qualify as recognized 
national or international experts. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains articles dated 2004 from en.mehrnews.com and Isna.ir which mention that the 
Petitioner received a silver medal, two other students received bronze medals, and Iran placed! I 
thel I An article dated 2008 from Isna.ir titled 'To Participate in thel I I I Iranian Students Left for India Today" indicates that the Petitioner was one of the 
5 See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer (last visited 
June 24, 2021); see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
6 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 
scientific advisors who accompanied the students and their supervisors to that competition. The 
Petitioner also provided an article dated 2014 fro~ I titled 1 I 
I O O , I that provides that the Petitioner was one of several 
graduate student advisors at the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) competition. 
Although the Petitioner's name is mentioned, the aforementioned articles are about the 2014 iGEM 
competition, and the 2004 and 20081 I and the performance of the Iranian team; they 
are not about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Further, the record contains a 2010 press release from , the 
publishers of the Petitioner's 2010 boo_ .... ________ __. The article, published on lbna.ir, 
mentions the Petitioner as the book's author and states that the work's target audience is 
"undergraduate students in biological sciences" and "high school students, [especially] participants in 
the biology Olympiads." A book review dated 2011 from I f (indicating Book of the Month 
Science and Technology as its source) summarizes the content of each chapter of the Petitioner's book, 
praises its chapter questions, Persian-to-English glossary, and references for further reading, and notes 
several weaknesses, such as "generalities" and the omission of certain topics. However, book reviews 
of the Petitioner's book, without more, do not qualify as published material about the Petitioner and 
relating to his work as required for this criterion. Here, the Petitioner provided articles only about his 
work instead of articles about him relating to his work. 
In addition, the above-referenced articles from en.mehmews.com, Isna.ir, and Ibna.ir do not identify, 
as required, the author of the material, and the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that the 
online publications in which the articles appeared are a major trade publication or other major media. 
Similarly, although the Petitioner provided information about Book of the Month Science and 
Technology from Libl.uc.acir, indicating it is a "[m]onthly periodical specialized in book review and 
news," and the publication's "national distribution page" listing the location of several bookstores that 
distribute the publication, the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence indicating that the print 
edition of this publication qualifies as major media. 7 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted several screenshots of a video from the I I show and an 
English translation of a transcript. The Petitioner claimed that the video reflected an interview of him 
broadcasted in 2004 on I I in Iran. However, as noted by the Director, the record lacks the 
original untranslated transcript corresponding to this item. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought through submission of all required initial evidence. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). Regarding the submission of foreign language documents, the regulation provides that 
the Petitioner shall submit such documents accompanied by a full English language translation. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). It does not indicate that English language translations may be provided in lieu 
of foreign language documents. As the record does not include the foreign language document, we 
are unable confirm the authenticity of the English translation, and therefore cannot consider it as 
7 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
demonstrating published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not establish that thel I show represents a major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner maintains that he has made several original contributions of major significance in his 
field as evidenced by his published research, citation record, and letters from experts in the field. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, 9 as discussed below, the authors do not 
provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance or support his 
claim that his original contributions "have been recognized as having had great significance." In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in 
journals, and point to the citation of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of the 
projects on which he worked, they do not show how his research and findings have been considered 
of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For instance,__ __ ~ ___ __, the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor at provides that the Petitioner ~ his laboratory in 2011 researching the process~----------------' D 
L__J rovides that in his thesis research, the Petitioner led his roup' s efforts in determining the 
and that the Petitioner's findings 
"led to new insights into how the L...----------------------------,1 I I' The Petitioner also developed "a quantitative model for the~-----~---' I lbased on these and other findings in the field" that "explained apparent discrepancies 
between expected and observecl I I revealed by results of .__ _______ __. 
spectroscopy assays published by prominent experts in the field, and ... predicted outcomes that were 
indeed realized upon farther investigation o-'L-~--------'' He states that the Petitioner's 
thesis results were published in the Petitioner's 2019 RNA article and 2019 FEES Letters article, the 
latter of which was featured asl t by the journal, which "showcases articles of highest 
quality and of interest for a broad research community." 
I I also explains that the Petitioner reviou1ly stu1ied .__ ___________ _. I lw~_it_h~ _____ __._a_t===~T_h_e_P_e_t_it_io_n_e_r_'s_r_e_s_e_fil_c_h_1_·n_t_h_is_ar_e~a 
showed an early role for the .__ _________________________ __. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
9 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
which controls He notes that the Petitioner '--------~ '--------------~ was the co-author on the resulting 2013 Developmental Cell article, which "has been cited by many 
experts in the field." Although! ~ reviews the areas of the Petitioner's previous work, he does 
not elaborate as to how, or to what extent the Petitioner's research has significantly impacted the field. 
Here,I Is letter does not discuss whether the Petitioner's findings have been implemented 
beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent of their 
application. He asserts that the Petitioner's work "advanced the sco e of research in my group and 
has set the stage for new discoveries regarding the in the future." While he 
generally notes the potential application of the Beneficiary's research,.__ __ ~ does not explain how 
it has already significantly influenced or impacted their shared field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Additional letters speculate on the potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly 
nificant at some point in the future. For exam le the Petitioner's su ervisor 
a indicates that the Petitioner studies th .--..__-..J."-__ _, ,-----'------.----------------------' '-------,r----........,level with the use of'~--=-----,--,--~ and employs a doubling-labeling strategy that 
marks~--~ with two fluorescent dyes simultaneously. He states that these technologies and 
strategies "will for the first time allow us to follow chan es in the conformation of thel I 
L_ _______________ ....,along th which would have a great impact on our 
detailed understanding of the·-----~~ process." .__ _______ __, who met the~ 
...:a=.:t...!1====1.::..s .,:;,la=b:::..:o::.:r-=a.:.:to::.:.r...1....:.a:.:t.1...-_---1....::s:.:.:ta=-=t=es::....:.:th:.:.:a:.:t--=t:.:.::h.::.e...::P...:e::.:.t1::.:.· t1:.::· o:.:.:n::.:;er' s research findings, that the L___J 
L_ __________ ....-----------,. __ __Jproduct, built upon his own earlier work 
on the interaction between and "o ened an exciting new chapter in our 
understanding of this crucial cellular rocess." a professor of biochemistry and 
biophysics at University of indicates that the Petitioner made his 
quantitative model for the available in the peer-reviewed database of molecular 
structures known as the.__ _____ ___. and that "research of the type done by [the Petitioner] can 
have direct and transformative effects on our understanding of molecular processes such as 
.__ ____ ~I' While the letters show promise in the Petitioner's work, they do not establish how his 
work already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, 
potential impacts . 
.__ ___ ___.lalso indicates that the Petitioner "made major contributions to instructor resources" for 
the 6th edition ofl k textbook,! I contributing "a library of 
well-crafted questions for every chapter of the book that instructors could use either during their 
classroom lessons or in exams, in order to encourage students to think more like scientists and less 
like passive listeners." There is no documentary evidence, however, showing that the Petitioner's 
question bank has notably influenced the field or otherwise equates to an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Overall, the letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the 
Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance in the Petitioner's field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
7 
value. 10 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that 
the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 
In addition to the expert opinion letters, the Petitioner also provides his publication and citation record 
from Google Scholar, statistical information regarding his number of publications and citations, and 
samples of other published articles that cite his work. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance . Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance ." We acknowledge, however, that articles that "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [a petitioner's] work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor." 12 
Regarding his citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 147 
cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his three highest cited articles received 141 
(Developmental Cell), 5 (RNA), and 1 (FEES Letters), citations, respectively.13 On appeal, the 
Petitioner claims, regarding his three highest-cited articles, that "[ w ]ith an average of 49 citations per 
paper in less than 10 years, my works have had over twice as many citations as average paper in my 
field." The Petitioner 's evidence in support of this claim includes a printout published on 
Timeshighereducation .com of data from Incites Essential Science Indicators by Thomson Reuters, 
showing a table of"Citation Averages" for papers published by field for 2000-2010 . We note that the 
Petitioner has not established the relevance of this data to the documented citations of his articles 
published in 2013 and 2019.14 Notwithstanding , the line for "Biochemistry " indicated that the 
documented citations of the Petitioner 's highest cited article, cited 141 times, does exceed the 17 .25 
average citations for "all years" in that field. 15 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. Highly-cited publications alone 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manu al/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 . 
II Id. 
12 Id. 
13 The Petitioner 's remaining article garnered no citations. 
14 The Petitioner further submits a paper published in 2005 in the journal Scientometrics which suggests "normalization of 
total number of citations with respect to the number of citations in mathematics is suggested as a tool for comparing 
scientific impact expressed by the number of citations in different fields of science," and argues, based on those metrics, 
that "[t]he 147 citations to my paper would thus correspond to over a thousand citations in clinical research." However , 
this evidence does not establish that metrics that may be suitable for comparing scientific impact expressed by the number 
of citations in different fields of science are indicators that a researcher has made contributions of major significance to 
his or her field. 
15 We note that the documented citations of the Petitioner 's second and third highest cited articles, cited 5 and 1 times, 
respectively , do not exceed that average. 
8 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance," as a citation ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the articles he 
characterizes as highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
While the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that 
evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's 
research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted examples of citations to his work by other researchers. A review 
of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research or demonstrate 
how it has widely impacted the field. The Petitioner provided a copy of an article entitled, I I I I (Nature), in which the authors cited to his 
2013 Developmental Cell article, his highest cited publication at the time of filing according to 
1Googlel 
Scholar.16 The authors cited his article, and one other, as a source for the statements that 
I I I I and 'I _ I However, the 
article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the 33 other cited papers. 
In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level 
of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Considered together, the evidence 
consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, and the reference 
letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and 
that his published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly ranked 
journals, as well as presentations at reputable conferences, establish that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. A publication that bears a high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also maintains that his 2010 textbook, satisfies the '---------.--~--, 
regulatory requirements of this criterion. The record contains documentation from that the 
Petitioner's textbook, a 
'has sold over 8000 copies in Iran since its publication in 2010, 
~m_a_kl __ n_g_i_t-th_e_b_e_s-t--s-el-li_n_g_a_c-ad_e_m_1_·c~book in biology published byl I The Petitioner asserts that 
"[g]iven its sales record, it has already been implemented and used by a significant number of other 
scientists in Iran." Although the sales information for the Petitioner's textbook indicates it was a best-
16 Although we discuss a representative sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 
seller for its publisher, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his textbook's level of sales and 
distribution indicate an original scientific contribution of major significance in the field. For instance, 
the documentation submitted does not show the number of scientists who have utilized the Petitioner's 
textbook as instructional material or that the textbook has affected the biological sciences at a level 
indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner claims on appeal that thel !questions that he authored, "used 
in at least 14 nationally-administered I exams ... attended by hundreds of thousands 
of students" and "republished verbatim in at least 7 separate books ... in whic~ I 
were analyzed in detail" demonstrates that work "clearly had a major significance in Iran." The 
Petitioner provided an uncertified English translation of a screenshot of book covers. The Petitioner 
claimed that the books contain some of his I I questions and their suggested answers. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide content from those books showing they contain :uestions and 
answers authored by him. Regardless, while the record indicates the Petitioner's! _ I 
questions may have had an influence on several student~------~ and the authors analyzing 
them, it does not establish the materials' significance to the greater field of biology. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he has performed in a leading or critical role for the~-~-----~ Das executive director of its 2006 two-mont~ I summer school.17 For a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 18 Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.19 For the reasons 
outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate that 
he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Within his initial submission, the Petitioner provided several appointment letters from thec=J that 
show that while he was an under raduate and graduate student he worked as a teacher and grader 
during s two-month summer school, includin as an instructor to teach the 
courses ' for the 2006 summer 
school. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from a professor of 
biochemistry and chairman of Iran's.__ ______ ___, steering committee, who provides that the 
Petitioner took on the "crucial" role of executive director of the c=]s two-month 2006 I I 
17 The Petitioner previously claimed that he also meets this criterion based on roles as a member of the I I I steering committee and as an instructor in itsl 
0, .. , I summer school between 2005~a_n_d_2_0_1_0 __ -0-n~ 
appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the role mentioned above and does not address these roles. 
18 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
19 Id. 
10 
~--~I summer school, in which he "led the planning and implementation of the intensive two­
month-long summer training curriculum," including "curriculum design, comprehensive classroom 
and laboratory training, and extensive examinations." The Petitioner's initial submission also included 
a letter dated 2010 from! I director of thee=] in which he confirms that between 2005 
and 2010 the Petitioner's work included the positions oflecturer and teacher of molecular genetics, 
cell biology, and biochemistry, and instructor of biology laboratory. The letter indicates the Petitioner 
"was giving up his position to continue his education in Ph.D. degree" and stated that "our institution 
gratefully recognizes his expertise." 
Within his res onse to the Director's request for evidence (RFE the Petitioner submitted a second 
letter fro ~--.-,.........,~dated 2020, in which he provides ...... t=h=at~t=h=e~_~is~a ........ scientific and educational 
or anization esta 1s ed to administer and coordinate all in Iran. He ex lains that 
the s board of trustees consists of Iran's , Iran's ~-'---------------------'-""---~ President of the ---~-----~ L----------r----,_ ________ __J 
~-~ and eight university faculty members. He notes that exams are administered 
annually in all cities in the country, and the first round of.__ __ ~exams includes the subject areas 
of mathematics, computer science, physics, astronomy, chemistry, biology, stem cell science, and 
literature. He indicates thatc=J administers and prepares several additional rounds of exams and 
training. He explains thatO eventually nominates and prepares four students i~ subject area 
for participation inl I He provides that "the organization ofl_J is akin to an 
academic institution in higher education, employing a broad range of administrative and scientific 
personnel "in administering and coordinating national exams, training programs, and international 
representations." 
He claims that the Petitioner played a leading role as "the executive director of the~I ------~ 
summer school in 2006." He explains that, in response to complaints of participants in the 2004 and 
2005 biology summer school program, the Petitioner revised the program curriculum, bolstered the 
scientific rigor of the program, streamlined and extended the exam procedures, and introduced 
scientific team projects and extracurricular science excursions. He asserts that the success of the 2006 
I )summer school program "was a testament to the importance of [the Petitioner's] 
unique role at thel__Jduring a critical period." 
The letters fromi= I and[ I did not indicate where the Petitioner's role as 
executive directo~ s 20061 : I summer school fit within the overall hierarchy 
of~ so as to demonstrate that it was a "leadin9" position within the club. Furthermore, while the 
Petitioner implemented changes toOs 2006 I I summer school program at a 
"critical period" for the organization, he has not provided evidence sufficient to show that his duties 
and responsibilities were critical for the Das a whole. The submitted documentation does not 
establish that the Petitioner's role was "leading" based on his title, placement in the organization, or his 
duties, nor does the Petitioner provide information sufficient to establish that the success~e 
Petitioner's 2006 summer school curriculum was of significant importance to the outcome ofl__J s 
activities to the extent that his role was deemed critical. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
11 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17440615 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a designer of sport and theatrical costumes, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates self-employment in athletic, theatrical and other fashion design from 1997 
until at the date of filing the instant petition in June 2018.1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record confirms that she has been 
a costume designer for many years and has displayed her work in national and international figure 
skating and synchronized swimming competitions, theatrical performances, and other artistic 
performances. She therefore meets this criterion. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that this 
criterion was satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets six additional criteria, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues for the first time on appeal that she meets this criterion based on her membership 
in the Union ofDesigne~ Synchronized Swimming Federation] I Union of Artists, 
Union of Designers, andL_j Union of Designers. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that she is a member of an association, and that membership in the association is based on 
1 See the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, which indicates self­
employment as a freelance costume designer between 2016 and 2018 and, previously, with her eponymous design bureau 
between 1997 and 2016. 
2 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Union of Designers! I the Petitioner submitted 
a membership card indicating "Year of becoming a member 1989." Ibis evidence wr accompanied 
by a letter from the former chairman of the union'~ I boardJ who describes 
the union as a professional creative association oft I designers that was in operation between 1987 
until 1991. He asserts that the association had "very strict selection criteria" whereby "designers were 
accepted based on the results of a creative competition," and that "the selection committee consisted 
of masters o~ !design, world famous artists, like I ! He asserts as follows: 
[The Petitioner] was admitted to the Union at the end of 1989, her membership card 
number is 3014, which suggests that in the two and a half years of the Union's 
existence, only a few were selected: there were hundreds of thousands of professional 
designers in thd I and everyone wanted to join the Union. Thus, membership in 
the Union was a confirmation of the high level, exceptional abilities and existing 
achievements. 
""'H=er~e:.21.l-...--__ __,ls statements are not sufficiently detailed to establish that the Union of Designers l ____ lrequired prospective members to demonstrate "outstanding achievements" as a condition of 
admission or that recognized national or international experts judged the outstanding achievements for 
membership with the organization. I I mentions that the Union of Designers I I 
considered factors such as "a high level as artists, but also have implementation in industrial products, 
their own unique developments." This statement is broad and is not accompanied by any supporting 
evidence regarding the Union of Designers! I or its membership requirements, such its 
constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding the process for becoming a member, 
the selection criteria, and the qualifications required for the reviewers of the selection committee. 
In addition, regarding the Petitioner's membership in the Synchronized Swimming Federation, I lunion of Artists, Union of Designers, and I !Union of Designers, the record does not 
contain documentation establishing the Petitioner's membership in any of those organizations or their 
official membership criteria. A letter from thel I Synchronized Swimming Federation to the 
Acting Mayor of the City I I dated 2013, requesting "free usage" of a premises "as the creative 
workshop of [the Petitioner] in the name of the regional non-governmental organization! I 
Union of Artists," states that the Petitioner "has been making costumes for the synchronized swimming 
national teaml .... __ ____.t' but does not confirm her membership in either organization. Thus, regarding 
the aforementioned organizations, the Petitioner has not submitted the primary initial evidence 
required to meet this criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner previously claimed to meet this criterion based her work as a costume designer 
for Olympic athletes. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that because "an Olympic-level costume 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
designer's work is one of the components of success for the athlete or team .... the costume designer 
becomes a member of the team in [the] same way as an Olympic coach or a choreographer would." 
As an example, she relates that her work requires her "to meet and design sketches with the athletes, 
attend their training, consider the music that will be used in the performance, etc." She claims, 
therefore, that selection of her work by Olympic "coaches and athletes who can test first hand the 
designers expertise" constitutes "team membership." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
being selected to design costumes by individual Olympic athletes and coaches conveyed membership 
in an association consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner maintains that this evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to her occupation. 3 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the membership criterion is not applicable to her occupation. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence 
that meets at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not 
meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a fashion designer could not do so. In fact, as indicated 
above, the Petitioner claims to meet six other criteria. Further, the Petitioner did not explain why the 
other criteria, such as judging and original contributions, do not apply to her occupation. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As a preliminary matter, the record contains an interview with the Petitioner from .... I--~-- ..... 
The record reflects that this was published in 2020, subsequent to the filing of the petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). As 
this article cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate 
whether it otherwise satisfies the regulatory requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided several articles that contain photographs of the Petitioner's synchronized 
swimmin or fi ure skatin costumes includin articles from Cosmopolitan.com dated 2018 titled 
--------------------- Thedailybeast.com dated 2012 titlede:J _________________ ' and from Nickvemeos.blogspot.com. However, these 
articles do not mention the Petitioner and therefore are not about her. Articles that are not about the 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
5 Id. 
4 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ 
at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008)(upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the article from Nickvemeos.blogspot.com is missing the date of publication. 
Additional articles mention the Petitioner by name but are not about her relating to her work. For 
instance, the record contains a screenshot of art of an article dated 1997 from the rint publication 
titled The article, 
which is in the _-,--_..,...,..' section of the publication, rovides that the Petitioner's design company 
presented a collection of bathing suits at the inl I In interview dated 2000 
froml !figure skater ______ ..... mentions that her costumes are made by the 
Petitioner. Similarl,Y, in an interview dated 2015 from! I, synchronized swimmer I fstates that the Petitioner has ber her prsonal designer for several years for solo 
and duet performances. An article dated 2003 from quotes the Petitioner, among others, in a 
discussion of fashion trends in different sports over many decades. The Petitioner discusses some 
recent figure skating costume design challenges and successes. As mentioned previously, the 
aforementioned articles are not about the Petitioner, but are about the presentation of the Petitioner's 
swimwear collection, fashion trends in sports, and the athletes! I and I I I I As previously discussed, articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the article from! I does not include the author of the material. 
Moreover, the record contains two articles about the Petitioner related to her fashion design work dated 
2017. In those articles, from and I lthe Petitioner discusses her costume design career 
as part of a team at the "'-r----..---~ House of Fashion and highlights with individual athletes. 
However, the article from.__ __ ....,does not include the author of the material. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence, at the time of filing or in response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), to establish that any of the aforementioned publications 
qualify as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 6 The purpose of the RFE 
is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been 
established. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8). In this case, the Director advised the Petitioner in the RFE that 
additional documentary evidence would be needed to establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy 
the requirement that the material be published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. Specifically, the Director advised that such evidence could include the circulation (on­
line and/or in print) for the publications in which the material appeared and the intended audience of 
the publication. 
The Petitioner did not acknowledge this request or submit the requested evidence in response to the 
RFE, but now submits evidence pertaining to the circulation of Cosmopolitan.com and 
Thedailybeast.com. When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an 
evidentiary deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Similarly, 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis .gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (instructing that 
evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should 
establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended 
audience of the publication) . 
5 
on appeal the Petitioner submits a portion of an article dated 1997 from Marie Clarel ~itled D I !' that contains a photograph of a swimsuit with a caption identifying the Petitioner as 
its designer and its price. This article is primarily about "what to wear, how to be protected from the 
sunlight, where to spend a vacation," and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. The author of the 
material was not identified. There is no documentary evidence showing the distribution of Marie 
Clare I !relative to other industry publications to demonstrate that the magazine qualifies as a 
major media. Regardless, as the Petitioner had the opportunity to submit the 1997 Marie Clare I I 
article in response to the Director's RFE we will not consider this evidence offered for the first time 
on appeal. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that the fact that her costume designs have appeared in fashion magazines 
and broadcasts of Olympic games is comparable to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). As previously discussed, the Petitioner did not show that at least three of the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to her occupation, she did not explain why she has not submitted evidence 
that would satisfy at least three of the criteria, and she did not establish why the evidence she has 
included is truly comparable to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore , the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that she may use comparable evidence to demonstrate her eligibility. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion, including 
through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Within her response to the Director's RFE the Petitioner submitted a letter from._ _______ _, 
of the inaugural 2020c=] Skating Awards, who states that the Petitioner "was invited by the 
organizing committee as a consultant and a member of the panel tasked with selecting initial 
contestants in 2019 to 2020" for the "Best Costume" category. He asserts that she is qualified for this 
position "as a leading expert in this field, whose costumes for many years have been ... highly 
appreciated by judges and experts .... " At the outset.I l's letter indicates that the Petitioner 
"was tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019 to 2020." The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). As she filed his petition in June 2018, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any judging she performed for the 2020c=] Skating Awards 
occurred prior to or at the time of her initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, in order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that she has not only 
been invited to judge the work of others, but also that she actually participated in the judging of the 
work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Heref the 
11etter does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner actually completed any judging tasks for the 2020 Skating Awards. 8 In addition, 
the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that she, in fact, performed as a 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an 
example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, 
accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
6 
judge for the 2020c=] Skating Awards, including showing how many or which contestants she 
reviewed, and how many or which initial contestants she selected for the 2020c=] Skating A wards 
"Best Costume" category. Further, we note that the statement does not bear the letterhead of the 
contest's company or the company's contact information. 
On appeal, the Petitioner 7rovides a letter from~ _________ _. ofl I Children's 
Football LeagueJ~ __ _.who states he has known the Petitioner since 1989, "when she worked at 
the Sportswear Models House and I headed the sports department in .. .I I' 
He provides that "when we had the idea to revive the International I I Fair, we invited 
[the Petitioner] to the organizing committee of the fair." He asserts that the Petitioner "was responsible 
for the region of1 l and was also a member of the jury of the 
competition for young fashion designers (regional inl ~ and finals, which took 
place irJ land also was a member of the jury of the I beauty contest I I I I' He farther claims that "[a]fter the advertising campaign 'Prologue' we continued our 
cooperation with [the Petitioner] and invited her to our other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." 
Merely submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge of the work of others 
without evidence showing when and who she jud ed and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. For instance, s letter does not indicate when, in fact, 
the Petitioner performed as a judge for in the Inter Fair's regional and final 
competitions for young fashion designers, and the ~--_.beauty contest 1 t The 
record also does not show, for instance, how many or which re ional and final oung fashion designers 
whose work she reviewed and selected for the International Fair or the names and 
the specific assessments of the beauty contestants she evaluated for the ~-----~ contest. If 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this instance, the 
record does not include supporting documentation demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge for any of the aforementioned contests. Finall , on a eal, the Petitioner submits an article 
dated 2017 from titled that quotes the Petitioner, 
fashion historian.__ __ ....,... ____ _. and others expressing largely unfavorable opinions after the 
official presentation of the~--~national team's Olympic uniforms. The article does not establish, 
however, that the Petitioner performed a role in judging the designs for the uniforms before their 
official presentation to the public. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 9 For 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (finding that 
7 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work and documentary evidence of her 
fashion design work for various clients. 1° For instance,.__ _____ ____..,. a fashion designer who 
indicates she has consulted with the Petitioner, states that the Petitioner "has her own style that many 
designers tried (but (ailed) T copy.".__~ ____ ____..,. a fashion designer and colleague of the 
Petitioner's from the Fashion Academy, provides that the Petitioner's "costumes sparkled on 
Olympic champions of Figure Skating and Synchronized Swimmers." I I a fashion 
designer and colleague of the Petitioner's from the Textile Institute I I calls the Petitioner 
"an incredible pattern maker" whose "artistry in costume design elevates her work to the level of Art, 
especially her hand dyed pieces." While the above letters compliment the Petitioner on the quality of 
her work, the record does not show how the Petitioner's costume design had a majorly significant 
impact in the field, has significantly influenced the work of other designers, or otherwise equates to an 
original artistic contribution of major significance in the field. 
In addition, in a joint letter, pair skaters! I an~~-----~~ indicate that they met the 
Petitioner as performing soloists forl ts All Stars Ice Theater for which the Petitioner 
was the set designer and costume designer. They indicate that the Petitioner subsequently designed 
the costumes in which they won a.__ ______ ..... Championship. I J a synchronized 
swim coach inl lstates that she has known the Petitioner for twenty years, and that her team has 
used the Petitioner's "incredible art designs in our swimming costumes" in three Olympic Games. She 
asserts that the Petitioner's "amazing talent highly contributed and upgraded our presentation." 
.__ _____ _. an Olympid I champion who has known the Petitioner since childhood, 
asserts that the Petitioner's costume designs helpe~ I to win Gold Medals in the 
c=]Olympic Games. The record does not establish, however, how the Petitioner's costume designs 
are considered an original contribution of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than perhaps 
impacting the artistic scores of the athletes for whom the Petitioner designed costumes. The record 
does not demonstrate sufficiently that her original work for her clients constitutes original 
contributions of major significance in the field. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather 
than limited to a single client or company. 
Moreover,! I an Olympic and world figure skating champion, indicates that she has 
known the Petitioner since childhood and that tJe Petitioner designed her costumes at the junior and 
professional level, including for herl victories at thel I Olympic Games. She 
asserts "the whole world recognized our unique style in costumes, which the Petitioner] created for 
us, our style determined the fashion in figure skating for a decade." .__ ____ ~does not provide 
specific examples of how the Petitioner's costume designs have significantly impacted the field or 
otherwise constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
10 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
8 
Further,! I a formerl I of thel I synchronized Swimming 
Committee, indicates that he has known the Petitioner since 1992, and that she has designed 
synchronized swimming costumes for the.__ ______ ____. national teams. He states that the 
Petitioner "has done a lot to promote our sport, working with athletes from many countries of the 
world." I I does not provide specific examples of how the original fashion designs by the 
Petitioner have significantly impacted others in her field or otherwise constitute original artistic 
contributions of "major significance" in fashion design. 
The record also contains a letter from.__ ______ _,, a coach ofthd I Synchronized 
Swimming Team, who provides that "for many f:ears, [the Petitioner] has been a leading designer of 
the performance outfits for thel . Synchronized Swimming team" which "dictates the 
fashion for the sport." We note thatl Is statement does not bear the letterhead of the I !Synchronized Swimming Team, or the team's contact information. Regardlessc=] 
I I does not specify which of the Petitioner's designs equate to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. The documentation submitted does not demonstrate that her specific 
work for thel I Synchronized Swimming team equates to original contributions of 
major significance in the field. As previously discussed, the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires that a petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the 
field" rather than limited to a single client or company. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I thel I o i...r----,.._ __ __J 
who indicates he has known the petitioner since their collaboration in 1992 on th All Stars 
theatrical ice ballet, for which the Petitioner was the costume and set designer. .__ ___ __, comments 
on the Petitioner's work for that theater production, but he does not provide specific examples of how 
the costume or set designs from the event have significantly impacted the field at large or otherwise 
constitute original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. He provides that "[t]he 
video version of the performance ... is still sold worldwide." In addition, the record contains 
screenshots from an unidentified librry websre showing that the 1999 videorecording 0~ I 
'-----------' featuring the All Stars with set designs by the Petitioner is available. 
However, the documentation submitted does not show that the Petitioner's design work from that ice 
production has impacted the field at a level indicative of an original artistic contribution of "major 
significance" in the design field. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
The preceding references discuss their collaborations with the Petitioner and her skills as a costume 
designer and set designer, but they do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's original 
work equates to original contributions of "major significance" in the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add 
value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Absent detailed examples of how the Petitioner's 
design work has been of major significance in the field, the reference letters do not sufficiently 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
11 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
9 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that fashion designer Vera Wang is among the "famous names" in her 
field of expertise. The Petitioner provides that Ms. Wang "was inducted into the U.S. Figure Skating 
Hall of Fame for her design/artistic contributions to the sport" and "designed far less costumes for 
Olympic athletes (and medal winners) than [the Petitioner.]" Therefore, the Petitioner asserts that "if 
Ms. Wang's contributions to the sport and art of costume design is significant enough to warrant 
induction into a Hall of Fame, [the Petitioner's] contributions are even more significant in light of her 
experience." However, the Petitioner does not provide specific examples of how her costume designs 
have impacted the field in the same manner as Ms. Wang, the individual to whom the Petitioner 
compares herself, or were otherwise majorly significant to the field. For example, the submitted 
documentation does not show the extent of the Petitioner's influence on other artists in the field or that 
the field has somehow changed as a result of her original work. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner must demonstrate her 
authorship of "scholarly" articles. Outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written 
for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship.12 Evidence of scholarly articles published in professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in 
print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and identify who the intended audience of the 
publication is.13 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts for the first time that she satisfies this criterion based on an article 
dated 1995 published in the print magazine I I She asserts that "[g]iven the celebrity of its 
creator, the publication would have been a major media at the time and as such, [the Petitioner's] 
article in the same should be treated as authorship of an article in her field" under this criterion. 
First, we note that the article translation does not identify the Petitioner as the author. In addition, the 
Petitioner did not assert or establish the scholarly nature of the published article. The article does not 
appear to qualify as scholarly, in that it is a popular article offering general information on the Soviet 
and Russian fashion design industry, rather than an article written in a technical manner that presumes 
considerable knowledge of fashion design terminology. In addition, the limited information about the 
publication contained on its cover indicates its subject matter includes "All the stars" in "Music -
Cinema -Fashion -Theater -Literature -Art -Media -Night Life," with such topics as I I 
.__ ________ ___,.__ _______ __.'"Confession," and "Who Does the Champion Sleep 
With?" Thus, the publication indicates its articles are intended to be accessible to the general public. 
The evidence, therefore, does not establish that the intended audience of the Petitioner's articles is 
"learned persons" in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not addressed the other element of this 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id. 
10 
criterion by submitting evidence to establish thatl I is a professional or other trade 
publication, or that it has the circulation to be considered a major medium. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to membership, published material, 
judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles. Although she claims eligibility for one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.14 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 26, 2023 In Re: 25753293 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director, producer, and screenwriter, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria, ofwhich he must meet at least three. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have worked as a director, screenwriter, and creative producer in the television 
and entertainment industry in Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet eight of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser awards; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions ofmajor significance; 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met none of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that the Director's decision ignored probative evidence in the record, failed to give 
evidentiary weight to credible documentation, and applied erroneous legal standards. After reviewing 
all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards and failed to 
consider relevant evidence with respect to several criteria. Based on these deficiencies, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
2 
The first step of the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to 
determining whether the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. This limited determination 
does not require an assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a petitioner's sustained 
national or international acclaim. Rather, the question of whether a petitioner is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys sustained national or 
international acclaim should only be addressed in the second step of the analysis (final merits 
determination). 
Here, the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence submitted with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), and (viii) by evaluating whether the Petitioner's achievements have 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. Under Kazarian, this issue is only assessed 
after it has been determined that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criteria. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
For example, in determining that the Petitioner did not meet the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Director found that the record did not establish that the Petitioner's judging 
experience has sustained national or international acclaim or places him among the small percentage 
at the very top ofhis field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that despite acknowledging that he served 
as a jury member at film festivals including l I 
the Director "conflated the step 1 ( evidentiary) and step 2 (merits) under Kazarian," and we agree with 
that assertion. The Director's analysis of this criterion was not appropriate, as it did not evaluate 
whether the evidence submitted objectively satisfies the plain language ofthe regulatory criterion. As 
the matter will be remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this 
criterion. 
We further note that the Director discounted many of the Petitioner's submissions because they were 
not accompanied by a certified English translation in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The 
Director correctly indicates that any document containing foreign language submitted to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) shall be accompanied by a full English language 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and has certified that they are 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Upon review, 
however, the translated documents in the record did in fact include the required certifications attesting 
to the accuracy and completeness of the translations and to the competence of the translator. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires 
that he provide evidence of his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor, the Director declined to afford evidentiary weight to 
the Petitioner's 2008 TEFI award for screenwriting because it was not accompanied by the required 
certification from the translator. As noted above and contrary to the Director's finding, the certificate 
was in fact accompanied by the required translator certification which was appended to the document. 
Additionally, the Director determined that the Petitioner provided insufficient evidence that this prize 
was nationally or internationally recognized. Although the record contains documentation regarding 
the awarding entity and media articles relating to the award, the Director deemed the articles not 
3 
probative because the Petitioner did not establish that they were published in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, a requirement that does not appear in the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 1 On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under 
this criterion. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's claim that he served in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director erred by misapplying the law and disregarding submitted evidence. The 
Director stated that the criterion requires a leading or critical role for an "entire organization, as 
opposed to a department or component within it." (Emphasis in original). The Director's analysis is 
incorrect as USCIS policy states that the leading or critical role may be "for an organization, 
establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment." See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, the Director 
also determined that the Petitioner's claimed role was not representative of sustained national or 
international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work in the field. This analysis must be made in a final 
merits determination, but is not appropriate in evaluating whether the evidence submitted objectively 
satisfies the regulatory criterion. The Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this 
criterion. 
Similarly, the Director inappropriately imposed requirements when evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires "evidence of the display of the [individual's] work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases." The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
related to shows, videos, projects, and films upon which he worked but stated: 
The interpretation that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) is limited to visual arts is 
longstanding and has been upheld by a federal district court. The 10 criteria in the 
regulations are designed to cover different areas, and not every criteria will apply to 
every occupation. As you are not a visual artist and have not created tangible pieces of 
art that were on display "at artistic exhibitions or showcases" you have not submitted 
qualifying evidence that meets the plain language requirements of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). (Emphasis in original). 
We note that the plain language of this regulation does not exclude performing artists or limit its 
application solely to visual artists (such as painters or sculptors). We disagree with the Director's 
interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual 
artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own work product 
and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the submitted 
evidence to determine whether it satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Further, the denial decision does not appear to reflect full consideration of the submitted evidence. 
For instance, while the decision correctly indicated that user-edited websites such as Wikipedia are 
1 The Director also incorrectly imposed this requirement in evaluating the Petitioner's evidence regarding his original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
4 
not reliable primary sources of information, the Petitioner did not rely entirely on user-edited websites 
to support his claims. Moreover, as stated above, the Director declined to consider press articles 
submitted in support ofthe Petitioner's eligibility under 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (v) because he 
determined they were not published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
a requirement that does not appear in the plain language of either of these criteria. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for the reasons discussed above, the 
Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, they 
were not required to conduct a final merits determination ofwhether the Petitioner has established that 
he possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one ofthe small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 26, 2024 InRe: 31134849 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner works as a general and operations manager who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification
, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a foreign Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering in addition to a Master 
of Business Administration from a U.S. institution ofhigher learning. He now works as a general and 
operations manager for an e-commerce company. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met seven of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and 
performing in a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes 
or awards, membership, original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, or a high salary or 
remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria the Director 
declined to grant. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude he has not satisfied any 
additional criteria meaning he has not met at least three criteria to warrant a final merits determination. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion, and we will not 
disturb that conclusion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director also concluded the Petitioner satisfied this criterion's requirements and we agree with 
the assessment. 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims a single award for his employer awarded for his operational performance in 
2021. The Director determined that even though the award reflected institutional recognition for 
excellence, it did not reflect national or international recognition for excellence in the field but instead 
was limited to recognition from his employer. Based on these findings, the Director concluded he did 
not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all ofwhich must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the regulation's plain language the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national is 
the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner argues several points on appeal, but we will first address the dispositive issue ofwhether 
he demonstrated his award was nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner's appeal brief 
identifies two articles he contends demonstrate the award garnered attention from the media. Despite 
one article being about the online sales industry and the other being about the Petitioner's employer 
directly, a review of both articles does not reveal any mention of the award. This material does not 
adequately support the Petitioner's claims. 
He further primarily relies on one letter on appeal to contend the award is at least nationally 
recognized. Even this letter only reflects the award' s recognition exists within his employer's business 
and doesn't extend beyond that into the broader field. We note that agency policy addresses employer 
awards limited only to its own personnel and states "an award available only to persons within a single 
locality, employer, or school may have little national or international recognition." See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
National and international recognition results, not from the individual or entity who issued the award, 
but through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. For 
instance, the President of the United States signs letters of appreciation for retiring military or 
Department of Defense civilian personnel. 1 However, the simple fact that an individual in a position 
of high authority signs a document, does not transform the document into a nationally or 
internationally recognized item. National and international recognition should be evident through 
specific means; for example but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. 
Additionally, unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient 
evidence that a particular prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. Sufficiently 
probative evidence that an award is nationally or internationally recognized is generally material from 
sources besides the issuing entity. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 183 (D.N.J. 2021). 
1 Presidential Letter ofAppreciation, Executive Services Directorate, https://www.esd.whs.mil/CMD/ploa/. Similarly, the 
presidential physical fitness award is not a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in athletics. 
Rather, it represents students reaching the 85th percentile in certain physical activities. Get Fit!, President's Council on 
Physical Fitness and Sports, https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GOVPUB-HE20-PURL-LPS39913/pdf/GOVPUB­
HE20-PURL-LPS399 l 3.pdf. 
3 
We therefore conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated his claimed award is nationally or 
internationally recognized as the regulation mandates. He therefore has not submitted evidence that 
meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation ofthe alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director discussed the evidence submitted for this criterion and found that the Petitioner did not 
establish his eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings for this 
criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, the Petitioner has abandoned his eligibility claims 
under this criterion. Matter ofF-C-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 788, 789 n.3, 791 n.6 (BIA 2024) (finding issues 
not challenged on appeal are waived). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying 
evidence under this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien 's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner provided his blogposts on two websites, and two additional articles. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements ofthis criterion. On appeal the Petitioner 
contests the Director's findings relating to three articles that appeared in various publications to 
include: the first article published in DCVelocity, a second article published in three publications, and 
the final one published in CSCMP's Supply Chain Quarterly. 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. The first element is 
that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in his field in which he intends to engage once 
admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We consider these articles to fall within 
two distinct areas. 
One area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, 
endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the 
concepts expressed in the article. The next area lies outside of the academic arena in which a 
scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(8)( 1 ). 
The second evidentiary element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of 
the following: (1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major 
media. Relevant factors a petitioner should demonstrate include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership are 
high relative to similar publications (for major trade publications and other major media). See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(1). The Petitioner must submit evidence 
satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
4 
The Petitioner claims each of his articles appeared in both "reputable [major] trade publications" and 
"major media outlets." We note he only needs to demonstrate the articles appeared in one of the 
required publication types, not both. So, he must demonstrate the intended audience and that the 
circulation or readership qualifies as "major" relative to other publications or media in the field. 
We begin with the publication DC Velocity. The Petitioner provided two forms of evidence 
supporting the circulation or readership for this publication. First was this publisher's 2020 Media 
Kit reflecting the publications total reach both in print and electronically. But we are not required to 
accept a publication's own claims relating to whether it qualifies as major media, as such self-serving 
claims are not sufficiently probative. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D. N.J. 2021) 
( citations omitted). Probative evidence is the type that "must tend to prove or disprove an issue that 
is material to the determination of the case." Matter ofE-F-N-, 28 I&N Dec. 591, 593 (BIA 2022) 
( quoting Matter of Ruzku, 26 I&N Dec. 731, 733 (BIA 2016)); see also Evidence, Black's Law 
Dictionmy (11th ed. 2019). Therefore, if some form of the Petitioner's evidence does not adequately 
prove their contention, then it is not considered to be probative. 
The second type of evidence the Petitioner provided relating to DC Velocity is the website's online 
traffic and rankings from an outside service, which reflected this website ranks 6,306 in their industry. 
This falls short of demonstrating this form ofmedia qualifies as major, meaning the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate the significance or relevance of these readership or viewership numbers to establish the 
website's major status. 
The next article appeared in five sources: Logistics Management; Modem Materials Handling; 
Supply Chain 24/7; Supply Chain Camp; Supply Chain Management Review. The evidence the 
Petitioner provided for the publication Logistics Management suffers a similar shortcoming as the 
DC Velocity publication; material from the publisher as well as online traffic and rankings, but in this 
case reflecting an industry ranking of 4,789. Again, this fails to demonstrate the viewership numbers' 
significance or relevance regarding the major status of the websites. And the remaining publications 
the Petitioner relies on in his appeal brief exhibit similar evidentiary shortcomings. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner provided his earnings data as well as evidence of remuneration. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The Director noted that 
the Petitioner provided evidence of average salary statistics of general operations managers in which 
to compare with his own salary. The Director concluded that comparison was not a correct one 
because a general operations manager was a comparable field, but it was not sufficiently within the 
same specialty in which the Petitioner had been working. 
On appeal, the Petitioner alleges the Director mistakenly decided that information relating to a general 
operations manager was not sufficiently related to his current work in which his salary information 
5 
derived. We note that some of the letters in the record described the Petitioner's work for his current 
employer as an operations manager, so we will set that facet aside. 
However, the regulation's plain language requires the Petitioner to establish his salary is high when 
compared to others in the field. As such, average statistics alone do not meet this requirement. 
Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 
31, 2019) (agreeing that average salary levels do not allow for an appropriate basis for comparison in 
determining a high salary "in relation to others in the field"). The surveys that simply reflected that 
the Petitioner's salary was higher than the average salaries of general operations managers were 
inadequate. Additionally, the Petitioner must show salary statistics in the same general area of the 
country relative to his own earnings, so the material showing the average national salaries were also 
inadequate. 
But the Petitioner also offered evidence from the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center Online 
Wage Library for his area in New Jersey for the General and Operations Managers occupational title 
reflecting the following wages: 
• Level 1 Wage: $70,491 year 
• Level 2 Wage: $114,629 year 
• Level 3 Wage: $158,787 year 
• Level 4 Wage: $202,925 year 
The Petitioner provided a letter from his employer reflecting a base salary of approximately $182,000. 
We observe that prevailing wage rates are comprised of three tiers (the lowest paid one-third, the 
middle third, and the highest paid one-third). And, the Occupational Employment Survey assigns the 
wage levels within these tiers: 
• Level l is the average of the lowest paid one-third in an occupation, or approximately the 
17th percentile; 
• Level 2 is approximately the 34th percentile; 
• Level 3 is approximately the 50th percentile, or the overall average wage for an occupational 
classification; and 
• Level 4 is the average of the highest-paid two-thirds, or approximately the 67th percentile. 
Because the Petitioner's salary is situated almost halfway between levels 3 and 4, that would place his 
salary below the 67th percentile for this occupational category in the area where he works. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated his salary-that falls below the 67th percentile-is high in relation to 
others performing similar work in his geographic region. We further note the U.S. Department of 
Labor's Occupational Information Network reflects that in the same location he presented the Foreign 
Labor Certification Data Center Online Wage Library evidence, an annual high salary amounts to 
$239,200 or more and this data was based on 2023 wage data. Local Wages 11-1021.00 -General 
and Operations Managers, O*NET OnLine (May 21, 2024), 
https://www.onetonline.org/link/localwages/l l-l 02 l .00?zip=0869 l. 
Turning to the Petitioner's claims that his non-salary remuneration is significantly high in relation to 
others in the field, he compares three years of his stock awards to data from salary.com reflecting "a 
6 
national average with a geographic differential." Again, surveys detailing salaries at the upper end of 
an occupation are more valuable than those showing only average wages. Proving a salary is "above 
average" typically doesn't suffice to establish a "significantly high remuneration." More 
comprehensive wage data is needed to effectively demonstrate significantly high remuneration 
earnings relative to peers. This evidence's value is further diminished as it reflects data for the entire 
United States rather than in the Petitioner's same geographic area. The Petitioner's evidence from 
indeed.com suffers from these same shortcomings. 
We conclude the Petitioner's evidence does not aid him in meeting his burden of proof under this 
criterion and he has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements here. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner's claims here involve a metric he created along with standard operating procedures, he 
developed protocols for his employer's automation, he formulated a best practices model, and his 
previously mentioned articles he authored. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
the requirements of this criterion. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in his field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 ( citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner attempts to extrapolate the size ofhis employer to indicate that significant contributions 
within his organization should equate to the broader e-commerce field as a whole. We do not agree. 
The Petitioner's employer does not operate a monopoly in their area, nor are they the only major 
company within that space. It therefore stands to reason that if the Petitioner's achievements were at 
the level he contends, that his employers' competitors would have considered adopting those methods 
and activities. But he has not made such a showing in this appeal. The Petitioner offered no evidence 
showing the widespread implementation of his claimed achievements that have been seminal, or that 
it otherwise equates to an original contribution of major significance in the field. And we are not 
persuaded that limiting the Petitioner's contributions to one of many players in the field exhibits the 
influence necessary to satisfy this criterion's requirements. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (finding that a 
foreign national's methods must not only be adopted by those outside a petitioner's employer, but 
those outside organizations also must have been able to successfully replicate the transformative 
methods for them to amount to a contribution of major significance to the field as a whole.) 
7 
Further, the briefretlects, "[t]he support letters from various professionals in the field are not merely 
anecdotal; they outline [the Petitioner's] innovative techniques and strategies, which have been widely 
adopted by competitors and implemented by professionals within the industry." A review of the 
Petitioner's more in-depth appellate analysis and the evidence he presents in support offer no 
additional insight into how his claims extend beyond his employer. While some of his achievements 
have been instrumental to his employer, those have been considered and incorporated into the 
Director's evaluation of him performing in a leading or critical role under the regulatory criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Neither the Petitioner, nor the letters supporting this filing explain how 
those achievements expanded their reach beyond his employer. 
And regarding his authorship of articles under this criterion, not only has he not explained or shown 
how those influenced the broader field, but we considered this evidence under a separate criterion. 
Because the regulations contain a separate criterion regarding the authorship of scholarly articles, we 
will not presume that evidence relating to that criterion is evidence that the Petitioner also meets this 
one. Here it should be emphasized that the regulatory criteria are separate and distinct from one 
another. Because separate criteria exist for authorship of scholarly articles and original contributions 
of major significance, USCIS clearly does not view the two as being interchangeable. Publications 
are not sufficient evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009) aff'd in part 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010). 
In 2010, the Kazarian court reaffirmed its holding that this office did not abuse its discretion in finding 
that the foreign national had not demonstrated contributions of major significance. Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1122. To hold otherwise would render meaningless the statutory requirement under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act for extensive evidence or the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) that the Petitioner meet at least three separate criteria. Thus, there is no presumption 
that every published article is a contribution of major significance in the field; rather, the Petitioner 
must document his article's actual impact. 
The regulation requires original contributions of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
has established he has made such impacts to his employer, his achievements and accomplishments as 
of the priority date fail to rise to the level of being considered of "major" significance in the field as a 
whole. As a result, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
8 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 26, 2024 In Re: 31381558 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, but the Director determined the 
Petitioner fulfilled only two: judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display of 
his work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two 
additional categories of evidence. 1 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 2 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 3 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 4 
The Petitioner submitted a 2015 article, entitled in ______ of The Himalayan Times, but this material only briefly mentions him. The 
Petitioner also presented what he claims is a translated document from Press Council Nepal listing 
1 In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's determination that he did not meet the commercial 
successes in the performing arts criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims 
not raised or contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-. 
28 T&N Dec. 330. 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
multiple newspapers and categorizing them by district, type, level, and class, but this list does not offer 
specific circulation statistics for The Himalayan Times or its The 
Himalayan Times is listed at the top as being a national level Class A daily newspaper. The original 
Nepali language document, however, contains no identifiers indicating that it was issued by Press 
Council Nepal. Without further information and evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
the I Iof The Himalayan Times is a form of major media. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided two articles in World ofWomen, entitledI I 2015) and I I 2016), but their author was 
not identified, and they did not discuss his modeling work. Further, the Petitioner has not shown that 
World of Women qualifies as a form major media. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For this criterion, USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to 
the compensation paid to others working in the field. 5 
The Petitioner submitted letters from and 
attestin to his com ensation from 2013 until 2020. He also rovided his contracts 
with 
_____ and _______ for 2013 to 2020. The record, however, does not 
include tax records or other evidence to corroborate the Petitioner's receipt of the specified 
compensation. In addition, the Petitioner presented an article from SalaryExplorer.com, entitled 
"Fashion Model Average Salary in Nepal 2023," and an article from WorldSalaries.com, entitled 
"Average Fashion Model Salary in Nepal for 2023," but he did not submit evidence of comparable 
remuneration data from 2013 to 2020. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated the validity of the 2023 
salary information from SalaryExplorer.com and WorldSalaries.com. To meet this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that he received a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation 
to other models during the same time period. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus 
other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of 
NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The nonsynchronous comparison of the 
Petitioner's modeling compensation is not sufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
While the Petitioner meets the display and judging criteria, he has not established he satisfies the 
criteria relating to published material or high remuneration. Because the Petitioner's inability to meet 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 
three of the initial criteria is dispositive of his appeal, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We therefore reserve this issue. 6 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. 7 Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 For example, the record lacks evidence showing that the Petitioner has "sustained" national acclaim as a model after 
January 2020. His published material, judging participation, modeling displays, and contracts all pre-date January 2020. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 26, 2024 In Re: 30663088 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist whose work has been featured in several exhibitions in New York. She 
studied illustration at the __________ and painting at the ________ 
The Petitioner intends to continue her work as an artist in the United States. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the Beneficiary of an approved 
O-lB petition. Although USCIS has approved at least one O-lB nonimmigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner, this prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 B category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria she claimed to have satisfied: 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field and the display of her work at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii). The record supports that 
determination. However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish that she meets the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (iii), (v), (viii), or (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she 
meets these criteria, and she contends that the Director incorrectly evaluated supporting evidence. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted articles from websites showing that she was interviewed and that her work 
has been discussed in several publications, including Art in America, Artforum, Cultured, 
Hyperallergic, Brooklyn Rail, and Canadian Art. In denying the petition, the Director characterized 
these articles as originating from "web portals" that are "not subject to editorial review" and "open to 
2 
self-creation material," therefore having "no evidentiary weight." The record includes documentation 
concerning circulation, revenues, and distribution data. However, the record also includes credible 
letters from museum curators and senior members of artist residency programs discussing the 
prominence of the publications in which the Petitioner was published in the field of visual arts. We 
conclude that the record includes sufficient evidence demonstrating that the publications in which the 
Petitioner was published are, more likely than not ,widely known in the arts community and target a 
professional audience. As such, we consider them to be professional publications. 
As to material that has been published about the Petitioner in other major media, the Petitioner 
submitted an article from Time Out, a widely known international magazine that specializes in 
highlighting events in cities throughout the world. The article featured the Petitioner's work in its 
201 7 article, _____________ The Petitioner also submitted articles from The 
New York Times discussin her artwork and the work of other contemporary artists, including I I 
which highlights the Petitioner as one of six within a group 
show, and __________________ which features "noteworthy gallery 
shows." The Petitioner further submitted a piece from the New York Times titled, ______ 
_______________ The piece depicts hand-drawn artwork from these artists 
created during the first weeks of the global pandemic and includes accompanying quotes from the 
artists. The Director determined that the article was not "specifically published material about" the 
Petitioner. We disagree with this determination. The submitted evidence reflects that the Petitioner 
was one of a few artists featured in a major publication in a populous city known for its abundance of 
artists, and these individuals were singled out to express their experience through their art and personal 
opinions during a prominent international event. The article was about the viewpoints of several 
artists, including that of the Petitioner. The evidence of record meets the plain language of this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(iv), and (vii). We therefore need not consider whether she met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (viii), or (ix). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 27, 2024 In Re: 31417247 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Multinational Managers or Executives) 
The Petitioner, a jiu-jitsu coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete and coach. He intends to serve as a jiu-jitsu coach in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 
judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record supports this determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) related to original contributions of major significance in the field and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and contends that the Director did not sufficiently analyze 
his assertions and the submitted evidence with respect to these criteria. The Petitioner does not address 
or contest on appeal the Director's finding that he does not meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
pertaining to membership (ii), published material (iii), display (vii), or high salary (ix). Accordingly, we 
deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 
28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has he made original contributions but that they have been ofmajor significance in the field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. For example, the 
2 
Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
The Petitioner asserted eligibility under this criterion based on his role in developing the 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (BJJ) Tournament as well as his development of Brazilian jiu-jitsu techniques. He 
initially submitted several testimonial letters and newspaper articles in support of his eligibility under 
this criterion. The Director found this documentation insufficient and requested additional evidence 
demonstrating that people throughout the field regard his original contributions as important, or that 
his work has been widely cited, has provoked widespread commentary, or is being implemented by 
others. The Director provided a list of the types of documentary evidence the Petitioner could submit 
in addition to letters, including patents, contracts, and licensed technologies. 
In response, the Petitioner asserted that the Director erroneously discounted the evidence initially 
submitted and asserted that the statements in the previously submitted letters demonstrate that he has 
made original contributions ofmajor significance to the field. The Petitioner asserted that his original 
developments in the field ofjiu-jitsu provoked widespread commentary, are considered important by 
peers, and had specific effects on his overall field. 
In the denial decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of multiple letters but 
concluded that none of the letters articulated how his contributions were original and were of major 
significance to the field. Although the Director noted that the letters were complimentary, they 
determined that such evidence was insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's coaching strategies 
and techniques had been implemented by others in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts 
that the Director erred by not sufficiently analyzing and affording evidentiary weight to the letters. 
Preliminarily, we note that this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his 
original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. Although the Petitioner asserts 
throughout the record that he is an expert in the field ofjiu-jitsu and that the record demonstrates that 
he has made original contributions of major significance to the field, he does not specifically identify 
those contributions or explain how his work has had such a deep or widespread impact as to be 
considered major in the field ofjiu-jitsu. 
The Petitioner contends that role in the development ofthel BJJ Tournament demonstrates 
his original contributions of major significance in the field. While he demonstrated that he designed, 
coordinated, and directed the tournament, the Petitioner has not shown how such actions are 
tantamount to original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. He did not, for instance, provide 
a specific example explaining the tournament's impact or unusual importance to the sport ofjiu-jitsu. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to adequately consider his articles and 
letters of support, claiming on appeal that the Director unfairly discounted several documents due to 
deficiencies and omissions in dates and translations. While the Director correctly noted certain 
evidentiary deficiencies that undermined the credibility of those documents, they nevertheless 
evaluated the submitted documents and explained why they were insufficient to demonstrate original 
contributions of major significance. 
3 
The letters discuss the Petitioner's achievements as a jiu-jitsu athlete and coach, his strategies and 
techniques, and his role in developing the BJJ Tournament. The letters and articles, however, do not 
provide specific information explaining how his techniques have influenced the jiu-jitsu field in a 
significant manner beyond its impact on athletes he coaches. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Moreover, while the Petitioner has demonstrated his role in 
establishing the BJJ tournament, the letters and articles do not demonstrate that this tournament has 
had a widespread impact on the sport ofjiu-jitsu. 
While all of the letters submitted collectively speak to the Petitioner's innovations and techniques in 
the sport ofjiu-jitsu, they do not provide examples of the depth or breadth of their impact. Neither the 
letters nor other evidence within the record shows how the Petitioner's work has been widely 
implemented or has otherwise impacted the sport ofjiu-jitsu. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion. See id. Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
While the Petitioner has participated in extensive jiu-jitsu training and coaching, and helped develop 
an annual jiu-jitsu tournament, he has not shown how these activities equate to "original" athletic 
contributions of major significance in the field. According to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), the contributions must be not only original but of major significance. While the 
evidence suggests that he is knowledgeable and skilled in jiu-jitsu, it does not establish that he has 
made original athletic contributions of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner has 
earned the admiration of his references and athletes he coached, the evidence submitted does not 
demonstrate that his impact on the sport is commensurate with an original athletic contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but to also demonstrate 
why they are considered to be of major significance in the field. Here, for the reasons discussed, the 
Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has performed in a leading or 
critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Director incorrectly determined that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which a petitioner 
was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. The Petitioner assets 
that he has performed in a leading role forl las a head coach andl las a BJJ 
competitor and coach. Although he demonstrated that he served as a coach for both I I and 
the Petitioner has not shown how his role as a coach is reflective of a leading role 
4 I 
for them. The record does not include evidence, for example, differentiating his role as a coach from 
the roles of the other coaches or employees of these organizations. Similarly, the Petitioner provides 
no evidence distinguishing his role as a BJJ competitor for I Ifrom other competitors 
or fighters. Furthermore, he has not indicated where his position fits in the overall hierarchy of either 
organization. Without evidence establishing that he performed in a leading role, the Petitioner's roles 
as a coach and competitor in and of themselves is insufficient to show that it is leading consistent with 
the plain language of this regulatory criterion. 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. Although 
the Petitioner asserts on appeal that "a title with matching duties is sufficient to meet the 
requirements," it is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that 
determines whether the role is or was critical. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at 
F.2(B)(l). Here the statements provided by representatives ofl landl do 
not provide detailed and probative information addressing how the Petitioner's role as a coach and 
competitor impacted their standings in the field or contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance. For instance, the evidence does not show that either organization garnered attention or 
increased attendance based on the Petitioner's coaching or competition appearances. Without 
information and evidence documenting the impact and importance of any work the Petitioner has 
conducted forl and the record does not demonstrate the critical nature 
of his role for these organizations. 
Further, the record contains insufficient evidence demonstrating that I and 
enjoy a distinguished reputation. While the evidence shows that these organizations are successful 
businesses that serve athletes, it is insufficient to demonstrate that the organizations have a 
distinguished reputation. For example, while the Petitioner submitted newspaper articles discussing 
the organizations and their fighters, the record does not establish that the organizations have received 
media coverage at a level that shows their eminence, distinction, or excellence, which might confirm 
their distinguished reputation. See id. (providing Webster's online dictionary's definition of 
"distinguished"). For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden of demonstrating his 
eligibility under this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred by not analyzing letters from athletes he 
coached who assert that they won national and international awards as a result of his coaching. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are 
able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to their 
occupation, which in this case involves coaching jiu-jitsu athletes. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
explain why the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to the occupation and how the evidence 
submitted is "comparable" to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). See id. 
While the Petitioner suggests that due to the nature of his work, the submitted letters qualify as 
comparable evidence, he does not identify which criterion the evidence is intended to satisfy, nor does 
he discuss why any of the criteria are inapplicable to his occupation. A general unsupported assertion 
5 
that the evidentiary criteria do not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative. See id. 
The regulatory language precludes the consideration of comparable evidence in this case, however, as 
there is no indication that eligibility for visa preference in the occupation of a jiu-jitsu coach cannot 
be established by at least three of the ten criteria specified by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In fact, as indicated in this decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence that specifically addressed eight 
of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and the record reflects that he has satisfied two of those 
criteria. Where a petitioner is unable to meet or submit sufficient documentary evidence of at least 
three of these criteria, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) does not allow for 
the submission of comparable evidence. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that it may rely 
on comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 28, 2024 In Re: 30315607 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Multinational Managers or Executives) 
The Petitioner, a jiu-jitsu athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner , a jiu-jitsu athlete, has competed in numerous national and international jiu-jitsu 
competitions. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Petitioner claimed to meet the requirements of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to lesser awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director determined that the Petitioner did 
not meet the plain language requirements of any of the claimed evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he satisfied all five of the claimed criteria and contends that the Director did 
not sufficiently analyze his assertions and the submitted evidence with respect to these criteria. 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's] receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. However , we find sufficient 
documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner received nationally and internationally 
recognized awards from the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF), and the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn . For example , the Petitioner submitted evidence of his 
receipt of numerous awards in Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitions , including First Place Gold in the 
International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF)I in 2016. The Petitioner also 
2 
presented evidence showing that the IBJJF ______ is the top tournament for competitors 
in jiu-jitsu. In light of the above, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 'sJ membership in associations in the fieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims that he meet this criterion based on his membership in the IBJJF as a certified 
black belt. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in 
his field, and that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of his black belt certificate issued by I land a copy of his 
IBJJF membership card showing that he is a certified black belt member. The Petitioner also submitted 
an excerpt from the IBJJF publication titled General System of Graduation. Article 5.1 of this 
publication lists the "IBJJF Basic Requirements to Obtain the Black Belt Certificate and Degrees," 
which states that an applicant for an IBJJF black belt certificate or degree: 
• Must be affiliated to IBJJF in the current year 
• Can not be an athlete with provisional graduation 
• Must provide First Aid or CPR course certificate 
• Must attend an IBJJF Referee Course within a 12-month period before the date of the 
request 
• Must be a professor or assistant professor at an academy affiliated with IBJJF or an 
athlete practicing jiu-jitsu in an IBJJF-registered academy who was graduated by a 
professor who is a black belt with at least 2 degrees certified by IBJJF. 
Article 4.1.3 of this IBJJF publication further addresses the degree system for athletes who have 
achieved a black belt ranking. It states that "promotion to a new degree in the black belt is only valid 
starting from the issuance ofan IBJJF diploma, after the applicant meets the basic requirements present 
in Article 5." 
The Petitioner also submitted articles identifying IBJFF as "the most famous and prestigious federation 
in the jiu-jitsu world," as well as two academic papers ( a journal article and a master's thesis) whose 
authors state that the Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt is recognized as one of the most difficult black belts 
to achieve in martial arts, often requiring a decade or more of dedicated training. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly weigh the submitted evidence and emphasizes 
that a certified black belt represents a high level of membership in IBJJF and that the information 
contained in the IBJJF publication is sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that 
the achievement of membership in IBJJF with a black belt certification requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. 
3 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this requirement 
based on his IBJJF membership as a certified black belt. The IBJJF' s General Systems of Graduation 
indicates that the federation distinguishes between academy-issued black belt graduation certificates 
and IBJJF-issued black belt diplomas. For example, Article 4.1.3 states that "every promotion to a 
new degree in the black belt is only valid starting from the issuance of an IBJJF diploma, after the 
applicant meets the basic requirements present in Article 5." 
Further, the stated "Basic Requirements" to obtain an IBJJF black belt certificate include submission 
of an application as well as evidence of "affiliation to IBJJF," completion of a first aid or CPR course, 
attendance at an IBJJF Referee course, and evidence of practicing or teaching jiu-jitsu at an 
IBJJF-affiliated academy for a specific period. Based on these stated requirements, receipt of initial 
membership as a black belt-certified member of IBJJF does not involve a process by which one must 
be judged as having outstanding achievements by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. 
The Petitioner highlights Article 5.2.1 of the IBJJF General System of Graduation, which states that 
"the Black belt certification graduation for each new degree is an individual process that depends on 
a thorough analysis by the IBJJF including examination of documents...." However, there is no 
evidence that the Petitioner has been granted any certificate from the IBJJF beyond the initial black 
belt certificate or that his membership has been reviewed according to these requirements, which 
appear to be applicable only to additional black belt degrees. Further, it is unclear what is entailed by 
the IBJJF's "thorough analysis" of documents or what criteria are considered in such review, such that 
we could conclude that additional degrees require outstanding achievements. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that acquiring the advanced knowledge and skills necessary 
for black belt certification in jiu-jitsu is a demanding process that requires years of training and 
dedication, and that earning a black belt represents a significant achievement for practitioners of the 
sport. However, for the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the 
Petitioner has a membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] participation, either individually or on a panel, as a 
judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). The Petitioner claims eli ibilit for this criterion based on the claim that he served as a 
voluntary referee at the IBJJF' _______ Jiu-Jitsu Open. In support of this claim, the 
Petitioner submitted a letter from the leading referee for the IBJJF, confirming 
his participation as a referee, as well as photos of him at the event. 
The Petitioner, however, did not provide a description of his duties as a referee to demonstrate that 
they involved evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors. Further, the record lacks other 
evidence, such as official competition rules for the event, showing that serving as a referee in this 
4 
instance equates to participating as a "judge" of the work of others. Although the Petitioner argues 
that his referee duties were subjective in nature, without further documentation such as evidence that 
he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner at these events, we cannot 
determine whether serving as a referee at a jiu-jitsu event is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Again, this regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not 
reflect the duties of a jiu-jitsu referee involve evaluating or judging the work ofjiu-jitsu competitors 
as opposed to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. See Victorov v. 
Barr, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020) (finding a rational connection between the 
regulation's phrase "judge of the work of others" and our distinction between that and rule 
enforcement). Absent evidence that he exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, the 
Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the role of a jiu-jitsu referee includes participating as a judge 
of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he satisfies this criterion by virtue of his evaluation of practitioners in 
the sport to determine whether they merit graduation to higher belt ranks. In support of this assertion, 
the Petitioner claims that he served as a "Blackbelt Professor" and subjectively evaluated individuals 
and their skills and performances. 
In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted letters from Brazilian jiu-jitsu athletes who attest 
that the Petitioner "graduated" them to higher belt levels at graduation ceremonies held atl II I The Petitioner also submitted excerpts from the IBJJF General System of Graduation as 
well as copies of "graduation certificates" issued to these athletes. The Petitioner also submitted a 
news article published in Flo Grappling regarding jiu-jitsu promotions. 
According to the FloGrappling article, "promotions in jiu-jitsu are subjective and does completely at 
the discretion of an athlete's coach." It further states that "there is no set criteria for when a promotion 
should take place." Moreover, Article 5.2.1 of the IBJJF General System of Graduation states that 
"the Black belt certification graduation for each new degree is an individual process that depends on 
a thorough analysis by the IBJJF including examination of documents, therefore, there is no set time 
for its conclusion." However, it is unclear what is entailed by the IBJJF's "thorough analysis" of 
documents or what criteria are considered in such review. The preceding documentation is not 
tantamount to evidence of the Petitioner's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
ofthe work ofothers in his field and suggests his claimed judging duties were performed in connection 
with his work as a coach or instructor. 
For example, Article 6 of the IBJJF General System of Graduation indicates that professors or 
instructors sign graduation certificates. As the Petitioner claimed to serve as a blackbelt professor, we 
cannot conclude that evaluation of athletes under his tutelage satisfies the plain language of this 
criterion. In an occupation where "judging" the work of others is an inherent duty of the occupation, 
such as a jiu-jitsu instructor, coach, or professor, simply performing one's job-related duties 
demonstrates competency and is inherent to the position. While we acknowledge that jiu-jitsu 
instructors, coaches and professors evaluate the physical conditioning of athletes and prepare athletes 
for competition by holding practice sessions to perform drills and to improve the athletes' skills and 
techniques, we do not find that evaluating athletes in this context constitutes participation as a judge 
5 
of the work of others for purposes of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe [non citizen's] work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion as his competitions were athletic in 
nature. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that martial arts are akin to performing arts and submits a 
number of articles in support of this assertion. 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner must show that his work was on 
display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(2). The Petitioner does not document that he displayed his skills other than when 
competing. While we do not question that competing successfully is relevant, probative information 
for eligibility, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that he has displayed his talent at exhibitions or 
showcases other than sports competitions. A complete review of the record reflects that the Petitioner 
has not established that his jiu-jitsu fights and competitions were of an artistic nature, or that the events 
themselves constituted artistic venues. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets 
the plain language of this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner meets the lesser awards criteria but does not meet the 
criteria relating to membership, judging, and display. Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy 
an additional criterion related to leading or critical role on appeal, we need not reach this issue. We 
reserve it as he cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative 
issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
TIT. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 29, 2023 In Re: 27544973 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140 petition, concluding the Petitioner 
did not establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reopen. The Petitioner 
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
While we may not individually discuss each piece of evidence the Petitioner submits with his current 
motion, we have reviewed and considered each one. We incorporate our prior decision by reference 
and will repeat only certain facts as necessary. In our appellate decision, we agreed with the Director 
that the Petitioner did not submit the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. 1 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
Regarding the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner maintains that he received 
a Red Dot award. The evidence indicates that this award was given to thel !Portable charging 
device and the company that designed it. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he was named as a 
recipient of a Red Dot award. He also points to various student awards he claims to have received, 
but his motion does not include evidence indicating that they are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field electrical engineering. Without further evidence 
1 We determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , the judging criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , and the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . The Petitioner did not 
claim to meet any other criteria on appeal. 
regarding their national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that his claimed awards are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in 
the field. 
As evidence for the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner points to his graduate 
and undergraduate courses, practical training, and work for both .___________ ___, The 
documentation presented, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has participated, either 
individually or on a panel, as the judge of the work of others in the field of electrical engineering or 
an allied field. 
With respect to the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner offers 
documentation of his work involving development of a "high tech chip I I process, an I I 
prototype" battery module, a 'l !pressure theory," water and lighting infrastructure, and 
I I lamps. The Petitioner's descriptions and photographs of his work are not sufficient to 
demonstrate its major significance in the field of electrical engineering. The Petitioner's statements 
do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating 
documentation, to show the nature of specific "original contributions" that he has made to the field 
that have been considered to be of "major significance." For instance, he did not offer evidence 
indicating that his prototypes and other developmental work have influenced the field of electrical 
engineering to the extent that they are ofmajor significance in his field. 
The Petitioner also provides new arguments and evidence under the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the leading or critical 
role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
However, as the Petitioner did not submit these documents before the Director, either at the time he 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims 
and documents in our adjudication ofthis motion. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence 
submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of 
proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). The 
Petitioner does not adequately explain why he did not present these documents before the Director. 
Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence to determine his eligibility under the applicable 
criteria for the first time on motion. 
Regardless, even if we were to consider the Petitioner's new arguments and evidence, none of his 
documents offered on motion meet the requirements of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (viii), and (ix). For example, the Petitioner contends that his involvement in 
developing a University ofl lsolar powered electric vehicle, a I I charging 
device, al ILamp, and al Icyber series lamp satisfy the membership criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). This documentation, however, does not constitute evidence of association 
memberships. Without evidence indicating that the Petitioner is a member of an association requiring 
outstanding achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or 
international experts, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of the 
membership criterion. As evidence for the scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
the Petitioner submitted a December 2015 '-----------------------' 
2 
Laboratory Final Report" he authored, but the documentation does not indicate that the article was in 
a professional or major trade publication or other form of major media as required by the criterion. 
With respect to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F .R. § 204.S(h) 3 viii , the Petitioner points 
to his product line setup and invoice system forl !lights and lights. He also 
discusses his work relating to the I I wireless charger, the.__ ______ __. plasma process, 
and the I I Lamp prototype. The Petitioner's evidence, however, does not show that his 
involvement in these projects demonstrates a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. 
As evidence for the salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner provided 
documentation relating to his interviews with Intel and NerdPower, invitations from prospective 
employers, a scholarship froml IPharmaceutical Production Company, and bank loans. 
This documentation, however, does not show that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration relative to other electrical engineers. 
The evidence on motion does not overcome our prior findings and demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Nor has the 
Petitioner provided new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the appeal. The scope of a 
motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.S(a)(l)(i), (ii). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew. The underlying petition remains 
denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUNE 29, 2023 In Re: 27416381 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocal coach and singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and artistic display). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, 
published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, artistic display of his 
work, performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations, and commercial 
successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to performing in a leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
published material, judging, and commercial successes criteria. 3 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that he meets the published material, judging, artistic display, and commercial successes criteria, and 
that he has satisfied the standard ofproof in this matter. Except where a different standard is specified 
by law, a petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance 
of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Under the preponderance of the 
evidence standard, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner's claim is "probably true." Id. at 
376. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he has also satisfied the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 4 The 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Director's decision did not address the Petitioner's claim ( offered in response to the Director's request for evidence) 
that he satisfied the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
4 With respect to meeting the judging criterion, the record includes a letter from the director of T-C-, a Christian music 
institute "that prepares worship leaders and music ministers," indicating that the Petitioner has served on "final exam 
juries" to determine if music trainees met their graduation requirements. Regarding his fulfillment of the artistic display 
2 
Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the basis for denial of the petition through fulfillment of three 
regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, the record does not support approval of the petition. Meeting three of 
the initial evidentiary criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the 
Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that 
he has sustained national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
I criterion, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that he has performed at music exhibitions such as the Florida 
land multiple other concerts in Florida. While the aforementioned documentation meets the initial evidence 
requirements of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his 
participation as a judge and conce11 performances are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim in the 
performing arts or that they place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 17186384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer of telecommunications hardware and software, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification, the record did not 
establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim or is one of the small percentage at 
the top of his field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a master of science degree in electrical and computer engineering from the 
Universit I lin 2011, and is currently employed by the Petitioner as its Head ot1 I 
L..._ ______ r-T=h=e~re~c~o=r=d~s...,hows that he co-founded~----~-~in 2011, which later 
became known as.__ ____ ____., and served as the company's vice president ofresearch until it was 
acquired by the Petitioner in 2019. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met four of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his contributions of major significance 
to the field, authorship of scholarly articles, performance in a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation, and high salary in relation to others in the field. However, in 
conducting the final merits determination, he did not find that the Beneficiary qualified as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the 
Director discounted the evidence of patents on which the Beneficiary is listed as an inventor. It further 
stresses that media articles that are not about the Beneficiary nevertheless discuss his work and were 
not properly considered in the Director's final merits determination. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusions regarding the contributions, author, 
and salary criteria, but we do not agree that the evidence sufficiently shows that~ has or had a 
distinguished reputation to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Nevertheless, because 
we agree that the Beneficiary has met the requisite three criteria and thus meets the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification, we will conduct a final merits determination of the totality of the 
evidence to determine whether he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that the Beneficiary meets that standard. 
In its appeal brief: the Petitioner primarily focuses on the patents authored by the Beneficiary for I !technology he developed and which led him to co-founcic=J In particular 
it stresses that the commercialization of the technology in those patents led to its acquisition otO 
The first issue it addresses concerns the number of patents in which the Beneficiary is named, which 
the Director characterized as 20 patent applications based upon the Beneficiary's Google Scholar 
profile. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it provided evidence of more than 7 5 patents authored 
by the Beneficiary which have been issued. We first note that beyond the Google Scholar profile and 
documentation of 6 U.S. patents and IO patents in other jurisdictions, this evidence submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) consists of tables apparently created by the 
Petitioner which list information about other patents, some of which these documents indicate are still 
pending. Such documentation may serve as reference material, but it does not serve to verify the 
existence of the listed patents, whether pending or issued. While the Petitioner submitted further 
evidence of the Beneficiary's United States and international patents on appeal, the RFE specifically 
requested further evidence of patents and their licensing and utilization. Where, as here, a Petitioner 
has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond 
to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of 
Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
In addition, and more importantly for purposes of this analysis, the evidence does not indicate that 
each of the patents listed in these documents represents a new innovation or original contribution to 
the field, but rather that many of them were filed to secure intellectual property protection for an 
existing and already patented innovation in an additional jurisdiction. While this does not diminish 
the value of the Beneficiary's original contributions, the Petitioner has not established that the number 
of patents and patent applications listing the Beneficiary as an inventor is sufficient to show his 
elevated status within the field of wireless communications. 
Concerning the commercialization of the Beneficiary' ~--------------' technology 
for which the patents were filed, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the evidence 
of contracts to deploy that technology, as well as media coverage o-c==J and its purchase by the 
Petitioner Ibis evide~ce includes a statement of work (SOW) between! I I J ancOin the amount of $50,000 for an approximately six month term. The 
SOW, dated May 18, 2016o~e Beueficia~ as "Technical Re resentative" and calls for~to 
provide software to supportJ _ ] technology for devices. Additional evidence 
includes a contract betwee and.__ ______ ___, a corn an in Sri 
Lanka, for the provision of "a software application to enabl_.__ ____ ---1 D data transmission." The Petitioner also submitted a 1ress release frorn __ ...... d_a_t_e_d_F_e_b_ru_ar__.__2_6_,_, 
2019, announcing its demonstration of its I O _ wit1 I a.__ ________ _. 
Although the contracts indicate that the Beneficiary's innovations have begun to be deployed in the 
3 
telecommunications industry to some extent, it is insufficient to show that this limited 
commercialization of his technology has impacted the broader telecommunications field already or 
brought him sustained national or international acclaim in the field. For example, we note that the 
press release regarding thel I demonstration does not indicate that s software has already 
been deployed, but that it "can be utilized to update existin....,_ ___________ _.devices." 
Several of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner also highlight the potential of the 
Beneficiary's work rather than the effect it has already had on the telecommunications field.1c=] I I co-founder and CEO of writes that he ·oinedc=Js advisory board in 
2013 based upon his impression of the Beneficiary's~-----~technology. While he praises 
the Petitioner's solution as the most cost-effective to address the demand for wireless connectivity, he 
then states that it "could be a revolutionary approach to cellular networks that may help address the 
burgeoning need for wireless connectivity," and notes that "we are only at the beginning." 
Another former member ofD's advisory board isl ~ CEO ot1 I Similar toO I l's letter, he writes that the company's technology "has the potential to change the way the 
telecorn sector will operate in the corning years," and describes it's software solution as "likely to be 
the most cost-effective alternative to come to market in the next several years." Although both of 
these letters mention the ongoing commercialization of the Beneficiary's technology, neither is 
specific in describing the impact it has already made. 
An additional reference letter was submitted by~--------~of the University! I I I who notes that he met the Petitioner in 2011 at the university and fully supported him and 
the seed financing fo0 from the University ofl I Like the letters 
above, he mentions that the technology developed by the Petitioner "has the potential to be the most 
cost-effective way to improve the efficiency of cellular networks," that the "real work has just started." 
While the patents and evidence relating toe=] show that Petitioner has already significantly 
contributed to the development of telecommunications technology, these letters do not establish that 
the commercialization and impact of his innovations are at a point where he is of the small percentage 
of engineers at the top of the telecommunications field. 
The record also includes several media articles discussingc=] and the technology developed by the 
Beneficiary. As not1 d byte Director in his decision, none of the articles are about the Beneficiary, 
but instead focus on it's launch, financing and purchase by the Petitioner, and the benefits and 
drawbacks of the technologµ.ni;oduces and markets. Some of these materials appeared as blogposts, 
some as press releases frornl__Jand the Petitioner, while three of the articles were news items posted 
on websites focusing on information technology and startup companies such as www.geekwire.com 
and www.technologyreview.com. We note that while the latter articles appeared on well-known 
media and discuss the PetitionerD and the technology developed by the Beneficiary, none of them 
mention him by name. Further, the publication of these three articles is spread out over five years, 
covering the period frornc=]s beginnings to its purchase by the Petitioner, which does not indicate 
that the company or technology was receiving significant or frequent interest from industry or 
mainstream media. This not only reflects upon whether0had a distinguished reputation, as briefly 
1 All reference letters in the record have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
4 
referenced above, but also does not show that the Beneficiary was the recipient of sustained national 
or international acclaim for his work. 
Turning to the evidence of three scholarly articles written by the Beneficiary and published in one 
scientific journal and two conference proceedings, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
statements regarding the level of citations to this work are ultra vires since citations are not mentioned 
in the pertinent regulations or in users guidance relating to the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
However, we note that the Director made this statement in his final merits determination, and had 
already granted the criterion relating to the publication of scholarly articles. In addition, the Petitioner 
does not explain how these three papers, when viewed within the totality of the evidence, have 
garnered acclaim for the Beneficiary at the national or international level or mark him as one of the 
few at the top of his field. The Petitioner instead refers to the evidence of the Beneficiary's patents, 
which were discussed above, and the evidence that citations to them "number over 400." While it 
suggested in responding to the Director's RFE that those citations serve as evidence of widespread 
commentary or notice, the record does not include evidence of the nature of any commentary included 
with those citations, and the Petitioner does not otherwise explain how the citations support the 
Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Regarding evidence of the Beneficiary's salary and total remuneration, the Director concluded in his 
decision that the evidence established that he met the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) based upon 
the evidence initially submitted. However, in discussing that evidence in the final merits 
determination, the Director used the language from that criterion to diminish the significance of that 
evidence, stating that it did not establish that "his salary or remuneration is significantly high relative 
to others working in the field." The two-step adjudication process put forth in Kazarian and the 
associated users policy2 dictates that after a petitioner has established that they meet the requisite 
three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the next step is to consider whether the totality of the 
evidence shows that the person has sustained national or international acclaim and that his or her 
achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, the Director incorrectly 
applied the same standard to the evidence of the Beneficiary's remuneration in the final merits 
determination as he had under the relevant criterion, and also reached a different conclusion. 
This evidence shows that in 2019, the Beneficiary received total remuneration fromc=] in the amount 
of $818,267.92. In addition, receipts from three two-week pay periods in 2020 show that the Petitioner 
was paying him a salary at the annual rate of approximately $185,000, and also reflect a one-time 
amount marked "payout" in the amount of $201,056.85.3 The Petitioner explains on appeal that the 
figure shown in the 2019 Form W-2 reflects the Beneficiary's base salary and "his royalties and stock 
option payouts," but the record does not include information which shows how much of this total was 
comprised of base salary, royalties, and stock option payouts. Nevertheless, although we agree that 
this evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets the relevant evidentiary criterion, 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 On appeal, the~oner submits for the first time a 2019 IRS Form 1099-B which shows that he received gross proceeds 
from the sale oL__J of over $1.4 million. As noted above, where a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in 
the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered 
for the first time on appeal. Matter a/Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). We will therefore not consider this evidence in our decision. 
5 
the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary has enjoyed sustained national or international 
acclaim in his field in order to establish eligibility, and this evidence covering approximately 18 
months does not support such an assertion. 
The evidence establishes that the Beneficiary developed novel software applications for use in the 
telecommunications industry and successfully launched a company to develop and market his 
innovations which received investor funding and was ultimately bought out by the Petitioner. In 
addition, he continues to lead the development of this technology, which has begun to find it's way 
into telecommunication equipment, under the Petitioner's employment. However, the evidence does 
not show that his achievements have been widely recognized in the telecommunications industry 
through sustained acclaim in the form of awards or significant media attention, or that his innovations 
have influenced the industry to the extent that he is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20631438 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this 
matter de nova. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who specializes in _________ painting. Because she has 
not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; and 
• (x), Commercial Success 
The Director concluded that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had received qualifying 
awards, that she is a member of an association that requires outstanding achievements, or that she has 
participated in qualifying judging activities, and therefore found that she did not satisfy the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(1)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv). The Director further determined that the Petitioner, in 
responding to a request for evidence (RFE), did not pursue her initial claim that she could meet the 
criterion relating to commercial success in the performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Accordingly, the Director did not address this criterion in the final decision. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she qualifies for the requested classification based on her 
receipt of nationally recognized awards, membership in national artists' associations that require 
outstanding achievements, and based on her participation as a judge for artistic exhibitions and 
competitions. She also asserts that the Director erred by failing to consider evidence of the income 
she has received from the sale of her artwork. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the Petitioner 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, 
and that each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that she had received nationally and internationally 
recognized artistic commendations and awards, as well additional awards at the "local level."2 She 
provided copies of the following certificates: 
• I I Certification issued by the National Art Museum I 3 
First Prize at the I I Arts Exhibition of the National Art Museum __ in • 
2019; 
• Second Prize at thel I Art Festival in 2016; 
First Prize at the Painting and Calligraphy • 
Association in 201 7 · 
• Third Prize at the Museum in '---------------------------' 2015; 
• Third Prize at the Art Exhibition sponsored by the __ Art Palace and 
Young Artists Association (no date provided). 
The Petitioner's letter in support of the petition briefly described the venues, exhibitions and exhibition 
sponsors referenced above without citing any sources. The initial evidence did not include supporting 
documentation that could assist in establishing that the certificates she received are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in her field. 
In the RFE, the Director requested English translations of the submitted! language award 
certificates. The RFE advised the Petitioner that she had not demonstrated that the claimed awards 
were nationally or internationally recognized and requested additional documentary evidence in 
support of her eligibility under this criterion. The Director stated that such evidence should 
demonstrate the criteria used to grant the awards, their significance (including the national or 
international recognition associated with the awards), the reputation of the organization or panel 
granting the awards, the geographic scope of the awards and any limitations on competitors, the 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, include, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards. the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the 
number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors). 
2 While we will discuss only those awards the Petitioner identified as nationally or internationally recognized awards or 
prizes, we have reviewed and considered evidence related to her "local level" awards in determining whether she meets 
the requirements of this criterion. 
3 The Petitioner indicates that this certificate was issued in 2016 and recognizes the inclusion of her painting __ I in the museum's collection as part of a young artists exhibition. The certificate does not include a date, the 
Petitioner's name, the name of the referenced painting, or the name of the exhibition. 
3 
number of awards or pnzes granted, evidence related to previous award wmners, and public 
announcements of the awards. 
The Petitioner's response included the requested English translations of the award certificates. 
However, she did not provide any additional documentary evidence related to the exhibitions or 
competitions at which she received awards or prizes in support of her claim that the awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized. The Director concluded that simply providing evidence of 
her receipt of an award certificate is insufficient to demonstrate the award' s national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner generally asserts that she established 
the significance of her awards, noting that her work "has been collected by the top-ranked National 
Art Museuml which is enough to show my personal artistic achievements." 
We agree with the Director's determination. Although the Petitioner demonstrated that she received 
the above-referenced awards, the record is insufficient to support her assertions regarding the 
prestigious nature of the exhibitions and contests at which she received those awards or her claims 
regarding the national or international recognition associated with the awards. A petitioner's 
unsupported statements normally will be insufficient to carry their burden of proof. The Petitioner did 
not support her assertions regarding her awards with relevant, probative, and credible evidence, even 
when given the opportunity to provide supplemental evidence prior to the adjudication of the 
petition. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the fact that her awarded work was exhibited in the National Art 
Museum! I should be sufficient to establish the national recognition of her award. However, 
the record contains no supporting documentation regarding the museum, the exhibition, or the 
recognition associated the specific award she received, such as evidence that the exhibition 
participants and award winners were announced in the media or otherwise recognized outside of the 
exhibition itself. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that her prizes and awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Accordingly, we conclude that she did not 
demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her membership in the __ 
Calligrapher's Association and her membership in theL_JAssociation of Women Painters. 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
In her supporting letter, the Petitioner stated that the !calligrapher's Association admits only 
the "highest level of professional painter." She indicated that new members must meet requirements 
that include obtaining the recommendation of three existing members, displaying work at prefectural­
level calligraphy and painting exhibitions that meets certain conditions, or winning a "national-level 
qualification" in a painting contest. She indicated that thel !Association of Women Painters is a 
national level group associated with th and that membership requires 
display of one's work in a national level exhibition or winning a national award competition. She did 
not provide supporting evidence from these associations supporting her claims regarding their 
respective membership requirements. 
Further, the Petitioner did not submit documentation of her membership in either of these associations. 
She submitted a membership certificate indicating that she has been a member of the I Artists 
Association" since July 2007. 5 She did not provide any information or evidence relating to this 
association or its membership requirements. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not establish that 
she is a member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding achievements 
in the field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. He 
requested: additional evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts; the sections of the associations' bylaws 
which discuss the criteria for membership; and the sections of the bylaws discussing the qualifications 
required of those who review membership applications. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a certified English translation of her membership 
certificate issued by thel I Artists' Association but did not include any additional evidence 
relating to this criterion. The Petitioner submitted a letter in which she repeated her earlier statements 
regarding membership requirements for the I I Calligraphers' Association and thel I 
Association of Women Painters, but as noted above, the record did not document her membership in 
either of these associations. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she is a member of these two associations but 
emphasized that she did not provide the associations' constitutions or by-laws or any other objective 
evidence that would demonstrate how prospective members' applications are reviewed or what 
qualifications were required for membership. As such, the Director concluded that the evidence did 
not confirm that membership in these associations is conditioned on an applicant having outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field of art. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the I I Calligraphers' Association and the __ 
Women Painters Association" are "national-level artist groups inl I She submits excerpts from 
both associations' websites, accompanied by partial English translations, as well as an English 
translation of the "association charter" for the !Women Painters Association. 
5 It appears that this certificate may have been submitted as evidence of her claimed membership in the I I 
Calligrapher's Association, but she provided no explanation or evidence to establish that the I I Calligrapher's 
Association" and the Artists' Association" are the same entity. 
5 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating 
that she meets this criterion. First, the record does not contain documentary evidence of the 
Petitioner's membership in the I Calligrapher's Association or the Women Painters 
Association. Accordingly, even if we reviewed the newly submitted evidence and found it sufficient 
to establish that membership in these associations is conditioned on a prospective member's 
outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts in the field, the evidence 
would be insufficient absent documentation of the Petitioner's actual membership. Further, the 
Petitioner had an opportunity to provide evidence such as association bylaws and other evidence of 
membership requirements in response to the Director's RFE. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 
I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
The only membership the Petitioner documented was her membership in the I I Artists' 
Association. The record contains no information or supporting evidence regarding the membership 
requirements for that association and therefore does not establish that she meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on such membership. For all the reasons discussed, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which class[fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but also that they actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or 
allied field of specialization. 6 The Petitioner indicates that she has participated as a judge at two 
juried art exhibitions. She submitted the following evidence in support of her claim: 
• Employment Certificate issued to the Petitioner by !university Art School in January 
2006. The certificate addresses the Petitioner and states that the university "decided to invite 
you to serve as a member of the selection committee for the <silent theme> invitation 
exhibition." 
• Employment Certificate issued byl IArt Museum in June 2018. The certificate states 
that "[the Petitioner] is hereby invited to be the jury member of the 2018 I Contemporary 
Women's Art Research Competition." 
The Petitioner's supporting letter included some information regarding the exhibitions and exhibition 
sponsors, but she did not cite any sources for this information, nor did she provide any supporting 
documentation confirming her participation in judging activities that satisfy this criterion. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the petitioner that her narrative description of these exhibitions is not 
considered sufficient objective evidence of the nature of her judging activities. The Director also 
emphasized that "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, while the submitted 
evidence suggests that she may have been a hired employee. The Director requested additional 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 
evidence to establish that she participated in judging the work of others in her field. The Petitioner's 
response included English translations of the above-referenced certificates but did not include any 
additional evidence regarding her judging activities. According, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not overcome the evidentiary deficiencies raised in the RFE. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that is customary inl I for an individual invited to participate in 
judging activities to be paid for such activities. She emphasizes that such temporary judging activities 
are distinguished from her day-to-day work and not part of her regular job duties. Finally, she states 
that she acted independently to "review every entry in the competition with [her] own artistic level 
and thinking." 
While we do not find that the Petitioner's receipt of payment would necessarily be disqualifying, the 
record lacks sufficient evidence to document the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of 
others in her field. The two "employment certificates" confirm that the Petitioner was invited to 
participate as a judge of artistic exhibitions or exhibitions. The record does not contain evidence from 
the exhibition sponsors or organizers, or other objective evidence, confirming that she accepted the 
invitation and participated in judging the exhibitions, nor is there any supporting documentation 
related to those exhibitions and the role of the judges in selecting exhibitors or prize winners. Without 
additional documentation confirming both her participation as a judge and the nature of her judging 
activities, the Petitioner has not met her burden to demonstrate that she has judging experience that 
satisfies the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
B. Summary 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did 
not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider bank transaction records 
demonstrating that she received high income from the sale of her artwork. While the Petitioner 
submitted copies of these bank transaction records prior to the denial of the petition, she did not 
previously articulate a claim that she can satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which 
requires evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high 
remuneration, in relation to others in the same field. 
The Petitioner submitted three pages from a ______ Bank Statement and included 
annotations identifying four of the listed transactions as income she received from the sale of her 
paintings. The Petitioner submitted no additional evidence to corroborate these claimed sales, such as 
invoices or receipts issued to buyers, tax documentation, or other objective evidence showing the 
source of the highlighted credits to her bank account. Further, the record contains no comparative 
evidence in support of her claim that these transactions establish her "high salary or significantly high 
remuneration" in relation to other painters inl I The bank records referenced on appeal are 
therefore insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: JUN. 30, 2023 In Re: 26842681 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a bachelor of engineering degree in civil engineering and approximately 20 years 
of professional experience with employers in Pakistan and United Arab Emirates, primarily working 
in the construction engineering field. Since 2007, he has worked forl I I lwhere he served as a team leader for advanced and specialized construction systems (from 
2007 to 2018), and, since 2018, as a commercial manager for concrete admixture systems and cement 
solutions. He indicates his intention to continue his work in the same field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related 
to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) and (viii) and concluded that he satisfied only one 
criterion. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate his 
performance in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished 
reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also provided evidence of published material in professional 
publications or major media and evidence of his original contributions of major significance in the 
field sufficient to meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v). 1 We will discuss the evidence 
submitted in support of these two criteria below. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that he had not established eligibility under criterion (i), 
related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. Additionally, the Petitioner did not claim 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (vii), (ix) or (x) before the Director or on appeal. As the Petitioner provides 
no evidence or arguments addressing these six criteria on appeal, we consider these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of 
R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty. Gen., 40 I F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). 
citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-2731201 L 2011 
WL 4711885 at *L *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
2 
In addition, the Petitioner has consistently indicated that he satisfies one of the criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) based on evidence of his "recognition by authorities in his field as an engineer of 
extraordinary ability." However, we emphasize that "recognition by authorities in the field" is not one 
of the enumerated regulatory criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Further, the Petitioner has not 
claimed that he is seeking to have this evidence, which consists of testimonial letters from colleagues 
and business associates and evidence related to the companies that employ them, considered as 
"comparable evidence" under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). 
In order to succeed on a comparable evidence claim, a petitioner must establish that one ofthe criteria 
at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) is not readily applicable to their occupation. If a petitioner makes such a 
showing, users will evaluate the evidence to determine whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation. Here, the Petitioner has not articulated a comparable 
evidence claim. Further, claims that users should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are 
not persuasive. 2 We will consider the submitted testimonial evidence under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
and note that such evidence would also be properly considered in a final merits determination if the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of ten criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not satisfied at least 
three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial evidence requirements for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner did not specifically claim eligibility under this criterion at the time of filing or in 
response to the Director's request or evidence (RFE) but indicates on appeal that he previously 
provided evidence that meets this criterion. Any published material submitted to satisfy this criterion 
must be about the individual petitioner and relate to their work in the field, and not just relate to their 
employer or other organization with which they are associated. Further the evidence must identify the 
title, date and author of the material, identify the name of the publication, and include evidence to 
demonstrate that the material was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles published m the same January 2016 issue of a print 
publication called which a ears to be a ublication. The three articles 
are titled' 
.__----------------~----------.,-------.-~-----' None 
ofthe three articles mention the Petitioner or his work as an employee o ~-~ The Petitioner draws 
particular attention to the .________ ____.article, noting that the Petitioner received an award at 
this event, but, as noted, the article does not mention him nor does it mention that awards were granted 
at this event. Even if the Petitioner had established that one or more of these articles is about him, he 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 204.5(h)(4)). 
3 
did not provide evidence thatl lis a professional publication, major trade publication or other 
major media. Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other 
major media publications should establish that the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high 
compared to other statistics and show who the intended audience is. 3 
The Petitioner also states that his employer published a profile about him but does not identify where 
the profile was published or provide the date or author of the publication, as required by the plain 
language of this criterion. Based on the format and contents of the profile, we cannot determine 
whether it was written and published by his employer. For example, the submitted document uses 
several different font types and sizes that appear inconsistent with an official publication and includes 
private information such as the value of the Petitioner's salary and benefits package, the addresses of 
property he owns, and a valuation ofthis property. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business 
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that they 
have made original contributions, but that those contributions were of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of 
major significance. 
In his personal statement the Petitioner laced articular em basis on his role in engineering concrete 
for the construction o notin that he and his team "overcame 
numerous en es and world records to 
.______________________ __, He also notes his involvement in other 
major projects that involved "innovating various concepts and technologies which help to conserve 
energy, save time in construction with green building systems for mega projects." Finally, he indicates 
that he has "developed innovative new solutions and blazed a trail for other engineers and teams by 
using these new solutions in actual projects." 
The Petitioner primarily relies upon several support letters from business associates and coworkers to 
establish his eligibility under this criterion. The authors indicate that the Petitioner, during his tenure 
atl Icontributed to major building projects, including the construction ofl IThe letters 
support a determination that the Petitioner is a highly experienced civil engineer with advanced 
technical skills and expertise in his field, and that he has offered solutions to engineering problems 
posed by the major building projects to which he was assigned. However, the letters do not describe 
a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of civil or construction engineering, 
provoked widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific field. 4 Nor 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
4 Id. 
4 
do the letters speak in sufficient detail regarding the "innovative new solutions" the Petitioner 
references in his own statement, or specify how he has "blazed a trail for other engineers." 
A letter from a procurement manager at I Istates that 
the Petitioner, as a representative of I provided "extraordinary services" to I I 
Specifically, he states that the Petitioner has offered services in the area of technical construction, 
chemical application services, various solutions related to advanced construction systems, and "value 
engineering" that have helped I !deliver "various mega projects" in UAE, and that his company 
is "fully satisfied" with the Petitioner's knowledge and expertise. The general manager of anotherI Iclient, I I similarly praises the Petitioner as "technically and commercially 
extraordinarily competent" to solve technical challenges. The general manager of I I 
.___________ _. credits the Petitioner with offering "extraordinary solutions and services," 
reports that his company "is fully satisfied" with the Petitioner's "technical knowledge and 
extraordinary expertise," and refers to him as "a remarkable executive who has been blessed with 
professional genius, leadership and a clear vision of the future of innovation." While these letters 
offer high praise ofthe Beneficiary's technical and professional skills and ability to provide innovative 
solutions to specific engineering problems, they fall short of identifying with specificity the 
Petitioner's original contributions and their impact or subsequent influence on the engineering field. 
The Petitioner also offered two letters from managers atl IThe country manager for admixture 
systems in UAE, Bahrain and Kuwait confirms that the Petitioner was "technically involved" in mega 
projects that included thel land more than 15 others, that he has received company awards, 
and that he has trained "indirect distribution channels, engineers, and consulting firms" in construction 
and concrete admixture systems. Another manager with I I UAE operations describes the 
Petitioner as an "accomplished expert in various construction segments," and praises his "strong 
technical knowledge ofconstruction materials and techniques," and his "ability to add value to various 
projects." Neither of these letters from the Petitioner's employer articulate how his contributions to 
projects undertaken byl land its clients, or his other contributions to the company, have had an 
impact consistent with original contributions of major significance. We do not doubt that the 
Petitioner's involvement in major building projects has required him to be innovative and to solve 
complex engineering challenges, and that he has been successful in meeting these challenges. 
However, the Petitioner must show that his work has had an impact on the field that extends beyond 
his employer and its clients. The record does not support a finding that the Petitioner developed 
solutions that are now being used by other engineers in the field or otherwise demonstrate how his 
specific contributions have influenced the field. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the authors who provided support letters do not sufficient identify the 
Petitioner's original contributions, nor do they provide specific, detailed information explaining how 
the contributions have been majorly significant in the field. Because the Petitioner has not established 
that his professional achievements are original contributions which have been ofmajor significance to 
the overall field of civil engineering, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
5 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance ofhis work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 