U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12336835 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pianist and music educator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification . 
The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that her entry will substantially benefit 
the United States. Finally, the Director entered a separate finding that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts in support of her petition. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for further consideration and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pianist and music educator who is currently pursuing her doctorate degree in music 
atl !University. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet seven of these criteria, relating 
to awards, membership in professional associations, published materials about her, judging the work 
of others, original contributions of major significance, authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or 
critical roles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(vi) and (viii). The Director determined that she did not 
satisfy any of the regulatory criteria and farther entered a finding that she had willfully misrepresented 
material facts related to her achievements. 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Director did not give sufficient consideration 
to the Petitioner's response to his notice of intent to deny (NOID) and as a result did not adequately 
support his finding ofwillfol misrepresentation. An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying 
a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us 
an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M­
P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a 
motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther consideration 
and entry of a new decision. 
Prior to the denial, the Director issued a NOID in which he observed that "it appears that the petitioner 
misrepresented her accomplishments." First, he stated that "a [Google] search of the petitioner's 
claimed work, . .__ ___________ ___, reveals that it was written byl I" and 
determined that the Petitioner had "willfully made a false representation" by claiming that she 
developed and created this series of books. The Director farther observed that "the petitioner 
submitted numerous letters of recommendation to establish her eligibility," and, in reference to these 
2 
letters, noted that "it appears that the petitioner has provided evidence that has been fabricated which 
is also material to whether the petitioner is eligible for the requested benefit." The Director's 
determination that the letters appear to be fabricated was based on an observation that "the submitted 
letters appear to be identical in format and do not contain the date they were authored." The Director 
did not indicate that USCIS had attempted to verify the authenticity of any of the submitted letters by 
contacting the authors or had otherwise confirmed that they were fabricated. 
In response to the NOID, the Petitioner submitted a statement and additional evidence intended to 
rebut the Director's intent to enter a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 1 She 
specifically addresses the Director's assertion that the three-book series titled! I 
I I was authored byl land not by the Petitioner. She notes that~I ---~-
has a rhythm teaching method brand (including a website and a series of books and videos called 
I ~TM that has existed for years. Her response provides images o .__ ___ ___. 
book, which, as noted, has a similar, but not identical title. The Petitioner emphasizes that it is a 
different series of books that do not resemble her books, which she states were published in China in 
I I 20192 and have yet to be widely publicized. The Petitioner also explains in some detail 
how she developed the rhythm method described inl I 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not successfully rebutted his initial finding thatD 
was authored byl I The Director acknowledged that the ~-----------~ Petitioner provided a statement in response to the NOID. However, the Director stated that "the 
assertions of the petitioner do not constitute evidence," and appears to have given no consideration to 
her statement, relying on Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) and Matter of 
Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980), caselaw that addresses the evidentiary value of 
unsupported assertions from counsel, rather than petitioners. With respect to the Petitioner's 
statement, we note that the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should 
not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 
(BIA 2000). However, the Board farther stated: "We not only encourage but require the introduction 
of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id.; see also, Matter of Y­
B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998) (noting that there is a greater need for corroborative evidence when 
the testimony lacks specificity, detail, or credibility). 
Here, the denial decision does not reflect that the Director weighed the Petitioner's statement for 
specificity or credibility, or considered it in the context of other evidence in the record, which includes 
copies of the front and back covers, table of contents, and several pages of the~-------~ I I books along with a letter from the publisher identified on the book covers and at least one 
published article that includes images of the book. Rather, the Director disregarded the Petitioner's 
statement and concluded that she had misrepresented a material fact by claiming she had writtenD 
1 With respect to her eligibility for the requested classification, the Petitioner stated the following in her letter in response 
to the NOTO: "I have received your notice based on the reason I am not extraordinary enough; I accept this result and I 
will keep study and do more contributions in both music education and piano pedagogy field." On appeal, the Petitioner 
requests review of the previously submitted documentation submitted in support of several of the evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5{,___h.._..){ ....... 3)...._{i ..... )-{..._x..._). ______ ...., 
2 A letter from[ : I Publishing House indicates that the books were published onl~--~ q 2019, less than two weeks prior to the filing of the petition. 
3 
,....l ___ ..----------~I while repeating that it "appears" that this book was authored by D 
I 
The Petitioner's response to the NOID also addressed the Director's preliminary finding that the 
recommendation letters submitted in support of the petition appeared to be fabricated. In her response, 
the Petitioner explained that she sought to obtain new letters to confirm the authenticity of those 
previously provided. She attached ten new letters in which the authors confirmed that they had 
previously provided letters in support of her petition. The new letters are dated, signed, on letterhead, 
and include the phone numbers and/or e-mail addresses for the authors. The Director did not 
acknowledge receipt of these new letters and does not appear to have considered them. Rather, he 
repeated that the numerous letters of recommendation appear to be "evidence that has been fabricated." 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Director's final decision did not adequately consider 
the Petitioner's response to the NOID, and as a result, did not sufficiently explain the reasons for denial 
as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter will be 
remanded for farther consideration, which may include issuance of a new notice of intent to deny if 
the new decision will include a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. 
We farther observe that the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of certain evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In evaluating the 
scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Director determined that the Petitioner 
submitted "her published books," stated that "these works would not be considered scholarly or 
professional," and noted that "a search of the submitted book '~-----~ [sic] yielded no 
results." The Petitioner's evidence included two articles authored by her: one published in Journal of 
Hubei University for Nationalities3 and one published in Tempo, the official magazine of the New 
Jersey Music Educators Association. While we agree with the Director that the submitted piano music 
book and music education books for children that the Petitioner submitted under this criterion are not 
"scholarly articles," the Director's decision does not reflect that he considered the submitted journal 
or magazine articles in evaluating this criterion. 
With respect to many of the remaining evidentiary criteria, the Director's analysis was based, in large 
part, on a blanket determination that the Petitioner submitted letters of recommendation that he 
believed to be fabricated or otherwise unreliable or inconsistent. However, as noted, the Director did 
not consider the supplemental letters submitted in response to the NOID. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should reevaluate the letters submitted in support of individual evidentiary 
criteria along with the Petitioner's NOID response. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 The International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) referenced by the Director in his deci,ion appears on the coyer of this 
journal. A search of the number at portal.issn.org reflects that the number corresponds to I 
the Chinese title printed on this journal's cover. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13572239 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a developer and manufacturer of scientific instrumentation, seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary, its company president, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence to satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
met this burden. Accordingly, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation establishing that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Beneficiary was working in the United States as the president of the 
petitioning company. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three 
of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles, and performance in leading or critical roles 
for an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) and (viii). The 
evidence in the record supports the Director's determination based on the Beneficiary's work as a peer 
reviewer for professional journals in his field, his authorship of scholarly articles, and his critical and 
leading roles with the Petitioner, which has submitted ample evidence of its distinguished reputation 
in its industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary has also made original scientific contributions 
of major significance in the field of ocean science and.......,,. _______ --.::,;,....,. consistent with 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and asserts that he is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability based on the previously submitted evidence. 
Because the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite three evidentiary 
criteria, he has satisfied the initial evidence requirements. Therefore, we will consider the evidence 
submitted in support of the original contributions criterion, together with the balance of the record, to 
determine whether he possesses the level of sustained acclaim and standing in his field to establish his 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if 
their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In the present matter, the Petitioner has demonstrated the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary completed his education at the University._! _____ __. 
where he received his bachelor of science, master of science, and doctorate degrees in geography. 
After completing his graduate studies in 2001, he worked for the Petitioner as an external scientific 
consultant. Between 2002 and 2007, the Beneficiary worked as a post-doctoral fellow at I I 
University and.I !oceanography id I, Canada, and as a research officer 
at the University ofl I School of Ocean Sciences. The Beneficiary accepted a senior scientist 
position with the Petitioner in 2007, later served as the Petitioner's vice president, and has been 
employed as its president since January 2019. Between 2014 and 2018, the Beneficiary worked in 
Europe fo~ l ~ I scientific instrument company. 
Overall, the record supports the Petitioner's claim that the Beneficiary's work, both as a researcher 
and in leading and critical roles with the petitioning company, has had a significant impact in the field 
of marine geology that has contributed to his sustained acclaim. Specifically, the record demonstrates 
his contributions to scientists' understanding o~ I in the aquatic environment and in 
advancing the scientific instruments and technologies used to measure and understand these I I 
particularly with respect to the the Petitioner's uniquel I technology. 
As noted, the Beneficiary is currently employed as the Petitioner's president and has previously held 
senior leadership and scientific roles with the company. The Petitioner has established that it enjoys 
an important and unique role in its industry as the only manufacturer of portable,~------~ I I instrumentation suitable for use in underwater environments. The record reflects that 
researchers at universities, consulting firms, and government agencies around the world rely on its I I instruments to conduct fundamental aquatic I I research, to carry out I I studies and I !assessments, and to respond to I ~,I , ( and othe~ I 
disasters. The record contains many examples of the importance of this technology to scientific 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
freponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classificati9lll----------, 
._ _____________________ ....,..I instruments used for measuring~ and the D 
~ties of water. The record reflects that thy Petitioner 1.levelops and manufactures a line of instruments under the 
L___J brand name that rely on) u_ .,. ..,. .., . and I !technologies, and are specifically 
designed for use in ocean and other aquatic environments. 
3 
research, the environment, and the public. For instance, the United States Envirnnmenta) Protection 
~ncy mandated thau Is be used on all vessels responding to the 2010 I I 
L_J in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The Petitioner has also provided detailed and probative descriptions of the Beneficiary's own critical 
scientific and leadership contributions to the company's product development and research efforts, 
indicating that he has been instrumental to its more recent product releases 
I I, and the refinement of its older product lines since initially .... jo-1-.n-in-g-th-e-co_m_p_a_n_y_i__,n 
2007. The Petitioner and other experts in the field have also weighed in on the Beneficiary's earlier 
research, its relevance to the development and enhancement of its I I technologies, and his 
influence on the use ot1 lin his field. For example,! ] a research 
oceanographer with the~ ________ __, explains that years prior to joining the petitioning 
company, the Beneficiary was one of the earliest users oQ and published several analyses of the 
instrument that are "foundational in the scientific literature concerning the use ofl I in the coastal 
ocean."I I co-founder ot1 la I I marine survey and consulting firm, 
also discusses the inlluence of the Petitioner's early research us ind I technology, no tin~ that he 
1 was the first in the world to demonstrate how researchers can estimate I I and I ~ using thel I and spurring "an avalanche ofliterally hundreds of papers usin 
results, almost all of them citing one or several of [the Beneficiary's] papers."I I explains that, 
while working for the Petitioner, the Beneficiary has farther contributed to the development of 
instrumentation and techniques that have been critical to research work in the field of I I 
I I 
The Petitioner has also successfully demonstrated that its senior staff are well-known leaders in the 
field whcj remain unusually active in collaborative scientific research at the international level. D 
I Professor of Oceanography atl I University inl l Canada, explains that 
the Petitioner "is one of very few manufacturers that maintains a presence within the ocean science 
community by actively publishing original scientific results and presenting new technolo~ 
constantly moving technology forward for the benefit of the global aquatic scientific community.'L_J 
Oexplains that the Beneficiary "is well-recognized within the ocean science community as having 
a long track record of excellent and outstanding work within the field ofl I' both 
based on his contributions to the Petitioner's technologies and related publications, and based on his 
earlier work as a researcher. The record documents that the Beneficiary has been invited to present 
the Petitioner's latest products and research at dozens of conferences worldwide[ farther contributing 
to his international acclaim. I lalso emphasizes in his letter thatl users and customers 
regularly seek the Beneficiary's input and participation in their original published research as farther 
evidence of his reputation as a "recognized leader in his field." 
In addition, several of the expert recommendation letters emphasize that the Beneficiary has made a 
major contribution to the field and cemented his international re utation by founding, organiyng, andl 
leading/chairing the Petitioner's bi-annual conference series, which 
describes as "a major conference for research related t in the aquatic environment." 
I p of the University~-~-~ in the United Kingdom describes as "an 
indispensable forum for scientists working in the field of aquatic! I' while.__--,--,------.~---' 
ofl I University i~ I Virginia, opines that "the importance of the workshops 
in advancing the collaboration and exchange of ideas amongst scientists working mainly in the aquatic 
4 
environment cannot be overstated." The record reflects that D has been held in partnership with 
universities in France, Spain, Denmark, Hungary, and Portugal since 2008 and has published its 
conference proceedings in a special issue of the professional journal Geo-Marine Letters for which 
the Beneficiary, as conference chair, served as the guest editor. 
Based on the foregoing, the evidence establishes that both the Beneficiary's leading and critical roles 
with the Petitioner and his related scientific contributions have garnered him sustained acclaim and 
place him among the small percentage at the top of a field in which the petitioning company maintains 
a high profile as an industry leader. 
The record also indicates that the Petitioner has reviewed numerous manuscripts for at least twelve 
different professional publications in his field. He has also served as guest editor for the 
aforementioned spect) issue of Geo-Matne Letters, and, as discussed above, is the founder and co­
chair of the bi-annua~------~conference, which the record reflects is regarded by experts 
as a major conference in his area of expertise. We find the Beneficiary's extensive judging experience, 
when reviewed together with the achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination 
that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence of the Beneficiary's authorship of a considerable amount of 
published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished professional journals. 
As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists and researchers, the citation history and other 
evidence of the influence of a beneficiary's articles can be an important indicator of the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. The 
Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary has spent most of his post-graduate career in private industry 
and asserts that the Director inappropriately compared his publication record and citation history to 
those of scientists who work as researchers or in academia in determining that his citation history did 
not reflect that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. In this 
regard, the Petitioner emphasizes that the approximately 1500 citations the Beneficiary has received 
should be considered in light of the totality of the evidence and the additional acclaim he has achieved 
as a senior scientist and leader for a private company that occupies a unique position in its specialized 
industry and provides essential research tools to scientists working in the ocean science field on a 
worldwide basis. 
The Petitioner also highlights its submission of letters from experts that address in detail the 
significance of the Beneficiary's earlier published research related to....__ ________ __,. For 
example, the record reflects that, during his post-graduate fellowship, the Beneficiary developed a 
platform calledl :Jfor the investi ation ofi lin the aquatic environment close 
to the seabedl ~cribes as a "significant technological and scientific advance" and 
states that derivatives of~--~are still in use 15 years after the Beneficiary first published his 
research. Several of the letters also credit the Beneficiary with pioneering the use of a statistical 
method called entropy analysis for the characterization of L...-__ __,...----_..._ __ ,___Jexplains that 
this method has since been "used ~s ranging from basic · es of I ~ matter ... toL___J studies to evaluate the--------~--~ -an 
important parameter when trying to I I after anl I' ~---~ confirms that the 
Beneficiary's I I method has been used by many other researchers and notes its 
application to studies of the environmental impact of aquaculture sites and in climate studies. ~ 
5 
~----~!summarizes the Beneficiary's papers and asserts that both his research contributions 
and his contributions to the Petitioner's products "are well-recognized in the scientific community and 
have enhanced the quality of research in the field." 
Although the Beneficiary is currently working in the private sector, he continues to publish his work 
and maintains a high profile as a leader in his scientific community as evidenced by his senior role 
with the Petitioner, his frequent attendance as an invited speak~d presenter at major international 
conferences, and his position as the founder and co-chair of thel_Jconference. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The record supports a finding 
that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has also demonstrated the Beneficiary's sustained 
national and international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. For these reasons, we conclude that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13570212 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a visual effects artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist, is employed as a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler forl I I I in California, where he works on video game[ film, and television projects. The Petitioner 
graduated from the I !College of Art and Design I with a bachelor of fine arts in visual 
effects in 2015 and worked as a 3D Generalist Intern forl I prior to joining Din 2016. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of the ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published materials in major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of these evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director either disregarded probative evidence or reached erroneous 
conclusions with respect to each of the claimed criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has not met at least three criteria and therefore does not satisfy the 
initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
2 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted more than 40 exhibits under this criterion, primarily from Indonesian media 
outlets. This evidence included newspaper, magazine, and online articles, as well as stills from video 
interviews that appeared online and/or on local television stations. In determining that the Petitioner 
did not establish that he meets this criterion, the Director addressed only a few of the submitted 
exhibits, noting that some were not about the Petitioner and his work and some were not accompanied 
by proper translations. The Director farther concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the 
published material appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
While the deficiencies observed by the Director are present in some of the submitted evidence, the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that articles published by the Indonesian daily newspapers Kompas and 
The Jakarta Post meet all elements of this criterion. The articles are about the Petitioner and relating 
to his work in the field, include the required title, date and author of the material, and are accompanied 
by sufficient supporting evidence to establish that these publications qualify as major media in the 
Indonesian market. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner contends that his recommendation letters reflect his eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has provided letters from his former professors atl I from his supervisors at D ~-~I and from his former employer. However, the Petitioner did not explain how the letters 
demonstrate that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. The authors of 
the letters praise the Petitioner's talents, abilities, and dedication to his craft. For instance,! I 
co-founder o±1 I states that "what sets [ the Petitioner] apart from the rest of the field is his 
ability to deliver the director's vision while maintaining aesthetics and a tremendous amount of details. 
His technical skill is at the very highest level and unmatched.".__ _____ ---,, a visual effects 
professor atl I similarly states that the Petitioner "continues to stand out from the rest of the field 
because of his attention to detail, his aesthetic eye, and his technical prowess" and praises his "unique 
abilities." Another! brofessor] I comments on the Petitioner's "aesthetic eye and 
diligence to achieve what is ideal," and describes him as "a creative artist" with "a keen imagination 
and "a great work ethic." 
While all three authors state that they consider the Petitioner to be a visual effects artist of 
extraordinary ability, the letters do not establish how the Petitioner's skills are viewed by the field as 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
original contributions of major significance. The letters, for instance, do not specifically identify the 
Petitioner's contributions and explain how they have significantly impacted or unusually influenced 
the field in a major way consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, having a diverse, unique, 
or special skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. The record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to influence the field 
at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
On appeal[ the Pletitioner emphasizes that the previous! submitted letters fro Head 
of CG at and I I Head of CG at~-------~ describe his original 
contributions and should have been accepted as evidence that he satisfies this criterion. The Petitioner 
highlights the following passage froml Is letter: 
[M]any of [the Petitioner's] projects showcase not only his own style, but also manage 
to bring out the best in other's work, resulting in a consistent and complete final 
product. This is most evident in [his] contributions to I I 
I _I. .. and I I Working in a small, critical team, [the 
Petitioner] was responsible for creating a look development setup for several sequences 
as well as optimizing the scene in order to ensure rendering would complete. He worked 
closely with me and the Director to ensure the best possible outcome aligned with the 
director's vision. 
The Petitioner notes thatl l's letter includes images of his work onD and asserts that 
those images represent what "is indeed the SIGNATURE LOOK of the game." We note thaO I I stated that the images from I lwere provided "to show the extraordinary work process 
of [the Petitioner's] work"; he does not state that the Petitioner is credited with creating the signature 
look of the game. Even ifhe had stated that the Petitioner is responsible for the entire visual look of 
one or more video games for whichc=J provided visual effects, his letter would not demonstrate how 
the Petitioner's contributions have had a major influence in the overall visual effects field beyond the 
projects to which he was assigned. 2 
.__ ___ _.I of.__ ________ __. states that the Petitioner worked under his supervision on 
commercial projects for two well-known brands. He explains that the Petitioner "was in charge of 
creating a frosty effect around the hero object on the end title, which was the signature look on both 
commercials" and "was also responsible for the development aspect of the project, which was 
successfully delivered and received great reviews." However,! ~s letter offers no additional 
insight into how this "frosty effect" was original or how the Petitioner's use of the effect in these two 
commercials influenced the visual effects field. 
While the letters generally acknowledged the Petitioner's participation in high profile projects, they 
do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original contributions and explaining the 
unusual influence his work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
A review of the Petitioner's initial cover letter and memorandum in support of the petition reflects that 
he claimed to meet this criterion at the time of filing. He indicated that evidence related to this criterion 
could be found at his initial Exhibit D, which contained only the five recommendation letters 
referenced above. He did not further explain how the testimonial evidence satisfies this criterion other 
than noting that projects on which has worked as a visual effects artist have acquired a "worldwide 
audience." 
The Director did not discuss the display criterion in his request for evidence (RFE); he did not 
acknowledge that the Petitioner claimed to meet the criterion, nor did he state that the Petitioner had 
submitted evidence that satisfies the criterion. Nevertheless, the Petitioner's letter in response to the 
RFE indicates his belief that "the Service accepted the evidence" submitted under this criterion. 
In his decision, the Director emphasized that the RFE did not advise the Petitioner that he had satisfied 
this criterion. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted his IMDb page indicating that 
he had nine credits for film, television and video games, but determined that the evidence submitted 
at the time of filing and in response to the RFE did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work had been 
featured or displayed in artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he did in fact claim to meet this criterion at the time of filing. 
The Petitioner states that, "following the principals of res judicata ... even if this argument was 
overlooked, the Service is now barred from raising such issue." While it appears that the Director 
overlooked the Petitioner's initial claim that he was submitting evidence related to this criterion, this 
omission did not equate to an affirmative finding that the Petitioner met the criterion, nor did it bar the 
Director from evaluating the Petitioner's claim in his final decision. 
As noted, the Director's decision acknowledges the Petitioner's claim that he meets the display 
criterion and explains why the evidence submitted does not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner sought to rely on recommendation letters from 
his employers and former professors to meet this criterion. These letters do not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases and as such, the record 
supports the Director's determination that this criterion was not met. The Petitioner does not address 
the adverse determination or claim that it was erroneous based on the evidence he submitted. For the 
reasons stated, his argument that the Director was barred from making an adverse determination 
because he did not address the criterion in the RFE is not persuasive. Accordingly, we conclude that 
this criterion has not been met. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his position withl As it relates 
to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight tol ~ s 
recommendation letter in evaluating this criterion. 5 I I states that the Petitioner had been 
assigned as "a critical member of the Scene Assembler team" for one otO s "most important visual 
effects (VFX) projects for this yead lwhich is due for release in November 2019."6 He 
further explains the importance of the Scene Assembler team in the visual effects process, noting that 
it is the last team involved and is the one that "delivers the finished cinematic product." In addition, I I indicates that [the Petitioner] is personally responsible for 20% of the outcome of the 
VFX projects assigned to his team" but notes that due to binding non-disclosure agreements, he was 
not able to provide further information or details regarding the projects. Finally, he describes the job 
of a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler, notes that it is "the most complicated with the heaviest 
responsibility" in comparison to other visual effects professionals, and states that "[i]n addition to 
being indispensable for his team, [the Petitioner] is unequivocally a critical member of our company." 
The Director acknowledged that bot~ landl lspoke hi~hly of the Petitioner but 
determined that they did not establish how his work is leading or critical to I as a whole. 
The Director also noted that while both letters frorrc=J specifically highlighted his work on the latest 
film in thd I franchise, this film was not listed among the Petitioner's film credits based on 
the IMDb.com profile he submitted. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter frortj U ~s Head of Human Resources and 
Recruiting, who clarifies that the Petitioner was ultimately not credited for his work od I ..c===J film because his team was assigned to another key project (the Netflix series! I L__J. She states thatc=J has a permanent need for his skills and asks that USCIS "kindly treat 
this correspondence to confirm [the Petitioner's] critical role with our company." 
4 Id. at 9-10. 
5 The Director's decision reflects that he considered all submitted recommendation letters in evaluating this criterion, 
including those fr~ Petitioner's former professors atl lwho discuss his role in the production of the award­
winning short filnL___jwhile at thJ 1miversitv ?n appeal, the Petitioner does not claim eligibility based on this evidence. 
but solely relies on his ~osition wit _ _ 
6 We note that I Is letter is dated May 1, 2019, and the petition was filed in February 2020. Th~I I 
film was not included on the filmography the Petitioner submitted from his Internet Movie Database (imdb.com) profile 
at the time of filing. 
6 
While both I I andl I describe the Petitioner as being a "critical" member of the 
company, the details provided in their statements do not demonstrate how his individual or team 
contributions to his assigned projects have been of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization's activities to the extent that his role is critical within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner emphasizes! ts statement that he is responsible for 20% 
of his team's output, but it is reasonable to believe that his fellow scene assembler team members at 
are ex ected to contribute proportionally to the outcome of a given film or video game project. 
generally described the responsibilities of a scene assembler without specifip.allY, 
escn mg ow the Petitioner himself performs in an essential position forc=J as a whole, whill_J D simply describes his role as "critical" without elaborating. 7 The fact that the Petitioner's 
employer expresses its intent to employ him on a permanent basis is not sufficient to establish that his 
role with the company satisfies all elements of this criterion. 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 8 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted an October 2019 memorandum fromc=] I I offering him permanent employment as a 3D Generalist/Scene Assembler at an annual salary 
of $85,000, with overtime pay of $66.40/hour. The Petitioner also provided comparative wage data 
for similar positions from several sources, including the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, Career One Stop, and Foreign Labor Certification Data Center, as well as salary data from 
Glassdoor and Payscale. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the memorandum offering him permanent 
employment does not constitute evidence of his actual earnings. Nevertheless, the Director noted that 
the offered salary appeared to be a competitive salary, but not a "high salary" in relation to others in 
the field. The Director requested copies of the Petitioner's IRS Forms W-2 or 1099 as evidence of 
his earnings and listed other evidence that would assist in the comparison between his wages and those 
of similarly employed workers in the field in his geographic area. In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner re-submitted some of the salary data from Department of Labor resources and additional 
salary data obtained from the websites Comparably and Simply Hired. He did not submit any evidence 
of his earnings fromc=Jor any other employer. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 Id. at 11 (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because he "declined to provide 
evidence showing any salary or remuneration has been paid." 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2016 through 2019 for 
the first time. This evidence confirms that he has been paid the salary indicated in his offer letter. 
However, where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
Further, even if we accepted this previously requested evidence on appeal, we note that the Director 
observed that the Petitioner's offered salary ($85,000/year) was competitive, but not high, based on 
the comparative data submitted. On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on three of the submitted sources 
of salary data for his occupation: (1) a Glassdoor survey listing a national average base py of $59~515; 
(2) a $75,270 national median pay figure from the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and (3) a I 
metropolitan area mean wage of $86,237 from the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center. Based on 
this information, the Petitioner's earnings are competitive in his geographic area of employment and 
may be above average nationally. However, the evidence does not establish that he has commanded 
a "high salary" or "other significantly high remuneration" in relation to others in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office 
receipts reflect an individual's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in 
the performing arts. 9 
As with the display criterion, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's initial claim that he 
meets this criterion or otherwise address this criterion in the RFE.10 The Petitioner's letter in response 
to the RFE indicates his belief that "the Service accepted the evidence" submitted under this criterion. 
The Director addressed this criterion in the decision and emphasized that he did not conclude in the 
RFE that the criterion had been satisfied. The Director determined that the Petitioner, as a visual 
effects artist, has not established his commercial success in the performing arts, noting that this 
criterion requires evidence related to the volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a 
performing artist's success. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's IMDb profile, but noted that 
simply being credited is not sufficient. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director was barred from making an adverse determination 
with respect to this criterion after failing to address it in the RFE. For the reasons already discussed, 
that argument is not persuasive. He does not otherwise address the Director's determination or the 
reasoning that supports it, nor does he explain how the evidence already submitted establishes that he 
meets this criterion. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
10 At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that the five recommendation letters referenced above were being submitted 
in support of this criterion. 
8 
The Petitioner also argues that evidence for this criterion should be considered as comparable evidence 
because he is a visual artist, rather than a performing artist, and the criteria is not readily applicable to 
him. The Petitioner asserts that "it is undisputed that projects that he was involved in were 
commercially successful." As noted, however, simply being "involved" or credited for a commercially 
successful project is not sufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. The evidence must 
reflect the individual's commercial successes in relation to others and be accompanied by comparative 
box office receipts and sales data. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to a petitioner's occupation.11 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required.12 General assertions that any of 
the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims 
that USCIS should accept recommendation letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 13 Here, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, he has consistently claimed that he can meet at least four criteria without needing to rely on 
comparable evidence. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. The prior nonimmigrant approval 
does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a 
different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Further, an immigrant petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record and a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of 
statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of 
proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). 
We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Nor are we bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. 
La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), aftd, 248 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or, in 
the alternative, evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
11 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
9 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record demonstrates that Petitioner is regarded as a talented visual effects artist with 
artistic and technical skills that are highly valued by his academic mentors and professional 
supervisors. The record also shows that he has received some media attention in his home country as 
a result of earning a position with a prestigious! lanimation studio, and he appears poised 
for continued professional success in his competitive field. However, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20009651 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a police officer specializing in training, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Where a petitioner meets these 
initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Id. (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner joined Brazil's! I Police in 2005. 
He began teaching courses for officers in 2008, and in 2014, he became an instructor at the I I University of the I I I inl I occasionally serving as a substitute 
division chief there. Since 2020, he has been in the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, 
studying for a master's degree in educational leadership, management, and emerging technologies at I I University inl I Florida. He has also competed in the martial art of jiu­
jitsu at the international level. After completing his degree and gaining "two or three years of 
experience working for a United States company," the Petitioner intends to establish a company that 
"will provide a variety of security training services to organizations and businesses in the United 
States" and "assist companies with their security and firearms needs." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner claims a one-time achievement in athletics s ecifically a silver medal in thel 
class at the 2020 Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation Jiu­
Jitsu Championship inl I Florida, in 2020. In the alternative, the Petitioner 
asserts, on appeal, that the medal amounts to a lesser internationally recognized award to satisfy 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Whatever the other facts and claims surrounding the award, the Petitioner has not established that his 
intended employment in the United States would be as a competitive athlete. The evidence submitted 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) must establish recognition of a petitioner's achievements in his or her 
field of expertise. But here, the Petitioner claims a major award in the field of athletics, while his 
other evidence all falls under the different broad heading of education. While we consider the totality 
of the evidence, the Petitioner seeks a conflation of different fields, with some elements of acclaim 
drawn from athletics and other from education. While the Petitioner performed well at one recent 
international jiu-jitsu competition, the record as a whole indicates that his claimed area of expertise, 
2 
and his area of intended future employment, is law enforcement training and education, rather than 
competitive martial arts. 
The Petitioner contends that martial arts are relevant to law enforcement because officers benefit from 
such training, and he states that the0encourages police officers to enter sports competitions. He 
also shows that a training course that he designed includes jiu-jitsu techniques. Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner's personal success at competitive jiu-jitsu appears to be peripheral to his stated career of 
law enforcement training. 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award in his 
intended field, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i}­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, because his high-ranking 
positions at I I amount to leading or critical roles for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria pertaining to 
prizes; participation as a judge; original contributions; and high remuneration. 
Upon consideration, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied two other claimed criteria. The 
Petitioner has served on various boards and committees that included evaluative functions, and he has 
thereby participated as a judge of the work of others. The Director concluded that this activity was 
"part of his employment duties." The regulation, as currently worded, broadly applies to judging 
activity. Whether the judging indicates acclaim is a question to address in the final merits 
determination. 
The Petitioner has also shown that he received the highest level of compensation from the The 
Director discounted the evidence of compensation because it included all police officers, not just high­
ranking officials; but it remains that, according to the documentation submitted, there is no salary 
grade in the above what the Petitioner received. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and whether his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
3 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
sustained national or international acclaim, and, therefore, has not established eligibility. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has fulfilled important roles atl I and in so doing he has 
influenced law enforcement training in Brazil at a national level. The statutory threshold, however, is 
not influence, authority, or success, but sustained national or international acclaim. The evidence 
submitted does not rise to that very high standard. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has risen to positions of considerable responsibility at l __ 
including designing at least one course of instruction and evaluating others, and also writing materials 
used in police training courses. He also presented studies recommending improvements in training 
methods, such as adopting virtual reality training simulators. These activities have had some influence 
one=] training in Brazil, and the Petitioner has received recognition for his work in these areas, which 
we acknowledge by proceeding to a final merits determination. 
But the Petitioner has not shown that his activities have brought him sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that the recognition he has received for his work (such as certificates identifying specific 
contributions and activities) amounts to such acclaim. 
Regarding the Petitioner's compensation, he has shown that he has achieved the highest base pay rate 
in the and he has also shown that he receives additional remuneration for participatil g in 
educational activities. The record does not show the complete range of activities for which 
officers might receive extra pay of this nature, nor does it show how the Petitioner's total remuneration 
compares with that of the highest-paid individuals employed by the The evidence submitted 
therefore satisfies the first step in the analysis, that it generally meets the criteria of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but does not satisfy the second step of analysis that it more broadly indicates 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has represented the and at international gatherings and on other occasions, 
such as "technical visits to the I Police Department and the I I Police." 
The record does not establish how the Petitioner was selected to participate in these activities, and he 
has not shown that they resulted in, or were, themselves, the result of, sustained national or 
international acclaim. An individual can represent their organization in exchange visits of this kind 
without reaching the very top of the field of endeavor as contemplated at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In summary, while the Petitioner has documented a long and successful career with Brazil' sc=] with 
some influence over the material presented atl he has not cleared the much higher threshold 
of sustained national or international acclaim. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23070824 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a packaging engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed by Amazon in a position titled Senior Product Manager, 
Technical. He is a packaging engineer specializing in pharmaceutical packaging. The record includes 
documentation to demonstrate his achievements and innovations while employed by several 
manufacturing companies and while working atl I State University. The Petitioner intends to 
continue his work as a product manager at Amazon. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the regulatory criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (v), (vi), and 
(viii). He states that the Director did not apply the governing standard of review, preponderance of 
the evidence. 1 The Petitioner also states that the Director failed to consider the totality of the evidence, 
that the Director's review of the evidence included inaccuracies, and that the Director did not address 
certain evidence. After review of the evidence of record, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
established he has met eligibility requirements for criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will remand the matter to 
the Director to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination to 
determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim, his 
status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As evidence of his participation on a panel or as a judge of the work of others in his field, the Petitioner 
submitted letters of endorsement. The Director determined that these letters did not show the 
Petitioner's involvement in reviewing work or provide judging criteria. However, one of the letters 
1 See INS v. Cardoza-Foncesca. 480 U.S. 421,431 (1987) (discussing "more likely than not" as a greater than 50% chance 
of an occurrence taking place). 
2 
from a senior officer atl I that was written during his employment with the company 
sufficiently describes his participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specification for which classification is sought. Specifically, the letter states that he "has contributed 
to judging and advancing of innovative packaging ideas developed by external entrepreneurs and start 
up business communities through " which "holds competitions focused 
on targeting un-met patient needs with winning concept funding." The letter further states that the 
Petitioner was involved in judging packaging concepts in these competitions. This sufficiently 
demonstrates that the Petitioner satisfied the basic elements of this criterion's requirements. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion based on his 
submission of letters of endorsement, stating that evidence must show that his contributions "went 
beyond the business and the business' clients and impacted [ or was] of major significance to the field 
as a whole." We note that most of the letters referenced in the decision are from individuals who 
worked directly with the Petitioner; these individuals provided detailed descriptions of his original 
contributions to the field of packaging engineering. For example, a senior director atl I I I citing the Petitioner's design of a unique plastic alternative to a problematic glass tuberculosis 
tube stated, 'I !solution was so significant to user safety that it was endorsed by the World 
Health Association (WHO)." And with regard to the Petitioner's role as the technical leader for the 
implementation of a new manufacturing platform, another senior executive at I lstated, 
As the technical leader of this project, I I specialized and unique knowledge 
of pharmaceutical operations, polymer technology, and engineering economics was 
crucial to the success and commercialization of [this platform] for pharmaceutical 
packaging. [This] was ground-breaking as it was the first major technology innovation 
for oral solids packaging since the invention of injection blow molding .... 
A senior director at stated of the Petitioner's work, 
[He] enabled D to progress product development in areas previously not possible. 
An example being the development and validation of a package which provides both 
chemical and physical protection to an Orally Dissolving Tablet .... The uniqueness of 
this innovative solution is that the package was required to meet the most stringent 
Child Resistant (CR) standard, due to the safety profile of the drug. Prior tol I 
involvement, a solution meeting the safety and business requirements was not 
available. 
The Director refers to all of the letters of record as "[l]etters of recommendation written by experts" 
and states that, although USCIS may use such letters as advisory opinions submitted by expert 
witnesses, 2 the significance of the Petitioner's work must be demonstrated by preexisting, 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-
2. 
3 
independent, and objective evidence. While the record does include correspondence from experts in 
the field that purport to objectively evaluate the originality and significance of the Petitioner's 
contributions, the Director appears to have miscategorized all of the endorsement letters as such; the 
detailed letters from the Petitioner's former colleagues were not analyzed as a part of the Director's 
decision, despite the fact that the Director's request for evidence stated that any letters of support 
submitted must include details concerning the Petitioner's contributions. Upon review of the record, 
we conclude that the evidence satisfies the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw 
the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204. 5 (h)(3 )(viii). 
The Director's decision references the letters of endorsement concerning the Petitioner's work and 
states that they do not explain how his accomplishments impacted his employers. However, the 
evidence of record appears to the contrary; several of the letters include detailed descriptions of the 
Petitioner's role and impact on the companies for which he worked. For example, the letter from 
I ]explains that the Petitioner was instrumental in the development and launch 
of a technology that "fundamentally changed production" of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) 
beverage bottles. The letter provides the following (quoted as written): 
This innovation single handedly allowed! Ito gain global contracts with early 
adopters, such as Pepsi and Coca-Cola. Due to I involvement in this project, 
___ claimed a spot as one of the top global PET packaging mold makers. 
Further, because of his effective leadership, I along with other members of I I leadershi team was the recipient of Canada's 50 Best Managed 
Companies award for consecutive years, recognized by the consortium of 
Additionally, 
because O ___ contributions, was recognized by Profit Magazine 
in "The Hall of Fame" as one of the "Most Profitable Companies in Canada" for 
consecutive years. 
As another example, the letter from a former executive at d discusses how the 
Petitioner's work to solve a complex issue related to leaking detergent containers resulted in securing 
the company's multi-year contract of $80 million per year with its largest client. The letter includes a 
description of how the Petitioner's redevelopment of a capital equipment quoting process resulted in 
new business contracts with British Petroleum and Colgate. Another example includes the 
aforementioned letter froml I that details the Petitioner's critical role in developing 
solutions for the company with regard to child-resistant (CR) packaging. The letter also states that the 
Petitioner's "expertise allow[ed] the business to pursue new innovative formats [through] his work in 
developing a CR sachet in support of the development of a Tylenol granules product for children." 
The record includes evidence that explains how the Petitioner's work as a project manager, plant 
manager, vice president of operations, director of engineering, program director, and director of global 
consumer packaging significantly impacted several notable companies. The Director also determined 
that the record did not include evidence that the organizations for which the Petitioner may have served 
in a critical or leading role have distinguished reputations. As per the letters of endorsement in the 
record and internet open-source information, I I is a multi-million-dollar company and 
4 
generates approximately $2 billion in annual revenues. 
are multi-billion-dollar companies that each employ tens of thousands of employees and 
operate worldwide. We conclude that the evidence of record satisfies the requirements of this 
criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The new decision should include a final merits determination based on an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the 
small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2024 In Re: 29831712 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a materials and science engineer who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three ofthe regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to: judging as well as 
authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original 
contributions. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the evidentiary criteria relating to 
original contributions. While we agree with the criteria the Director found in the Petitioner's favor, 
we conclude he has not satisfied the third regulatory criteria necessary to meet the antecedent initial 
evidence requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's ultimate determination under this 
criterion with the added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872,874 (BIA 1994); 
see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the practice of adopting and 
affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely 
confronted the issue"); Lopez Perez v. Holder, 587 F.3d 456, 460-61 (1st Cir. 2009) (joining eight 
U.S. Circuit Courts ofAppeals in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision 
below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
2 
Although the Director's decision under this criterion contains some elements that we do not wholly 
agree with, those aspects did not appear to significantly influence the decision to deny this criterion. 
It further appears the correct decision would still be to conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
his contributions have been of major significance to the field as a whole. It is not enough to 
demonstrate errors in an agency's decision; a petitioner must also establish they were prejudiced by 
the mistakes. Shinseki v. Sanders, 556 U.S. 396, 409 (2009); Molina-Martinez v. United States, 578 
U.S. 189, 203 (2016). As the Petitioner has not demonstrated he was prejudiced by the Director's 
error, such a lapse in propriety is harmless and is insufficient grounds upon which to base this appeal. 
Errors can be overlooked when they had no bearing on the substance of an agency's decision. Aguilar 
v. Garland, 60 F.4th 401, 407 (8th Cir. 2023) (citing Prohibition Juice Co. v. United States Food & 
Drug Admin., 45 F.4th 8, 24 (D.C. Cir. 2022)). The party that "seeks to have a judgment set aside 
because of an erroneous ruling carries the burden of showing that prejudice resulted." Shinseki, 556 
U.S. at 409 (quoting Palmer v. Hoffinan, 318 U.S. 109, 116 (1943)); Molina-Martinez, 578 U.S. at 
203. 
At the time of filing in January of 2020, the Petitioner provided a citation record of 1,608 collective 
or total number of citations to his published work. Now on appeal, he references 3,200 citations. 
Although the Petitioner's citation record has increased in each year since he filed the petition, those 
additional accolades must be considered in a future petition that succeeds those originally presented 
and cannot factor in our decision on this petition. A filing party must establish they are eligible for 
the requested benefit at the time of filing the application or petition. 8 C.F .R. § I 03 .2(b )(I). See also 
Ahmedv. Mukasey, 519 F.3d 579,582 (6th Cir. 2008) (citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l)); Karakenyan v. 
US. Citizenship & Immigr., 468 F. Supp. 3d 50, 52 (D.D.C. 2020). 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner also claims the Director didn't properly consider the ranking of the 
journals in which his work was published. That a publication bears a high impact factor is reflective 
ofthe average citation rate ofindividual articles within a publication. It does not however, demonstrate 
the influence of any particular author within the field nor how an author's research has impacted the 
field as a whole. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d I 030, I 036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd 
in part, 596 F.3d 1115. The Petitioner still bears the burden of establishing that his work is 
commensurate with a contribution of major significance in his field. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter ofOtiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). Although the record shows that others 
in the Petitioner's field have cited to his work, it lacks evidence that others in the field have employed 
his findings in their own work, and that this has resulted in some significant influence within the field. 
Ultimately, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
3 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 1, 2024 In Re: 29848738 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish he 
had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Evidence ofthe alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two ofthe evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work 
of others in the same or allied field and commanding a high salary for services, but that he had not 
satisfied any of the remaining categories. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon which the Director issued an adverse 
determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, not only do we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria regarding judging the work ofothers in the same or an allied 
field and high remuneration for services, but we also conclude he satisfies one additional criterion. 
Because we conclude the Petitioner has satisfied that additional criterion, we will provide analysis on 
that requirement. However, it is unnecessary that we evaluate the remaining claimed criteria because 
the Petitioner is only required to satisfy three of the regulatory requirements. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or 
was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of 
distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/ dictionary /distinguished). The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
The Director stated the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner performed a leading and/or critical role for 
his employer,~---------~ but the evidence did not establish this company held a 
distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional evidence regarding this company 
including that in 2021 it was recognized as the I !construction company in Brazil, and in 2020 
it was ranked as theI Ibest company in the field of civil engineering in Brazil. In addition, in 2018 
and 2019, the company was awarded the BIM SIM Seal ofExcellence by thel I 
I I which represents the highest recognition in Brazil for the field of 
Construction Information Modeling. The Petitioner also provided evidence ofhowl Iwork within 
the construction sector has been extensively covered across a multitude ofplatforms including magazines, 
newspapers, blogs, and websites that emphasize their strong standing and influential role within the 
construction industry. The Petitioner submits additional evidence regarding the company's reputation, 
including an extensive list with supporting documentation showing the prizes and awards the company 
won. 
In summary, the credible evidence provided on appeal sufficiently demonstrates that, more likely than 
not, the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The 
Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality ofthe evidence to determine ifthey establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's 
3 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated 
ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081540 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. The Petitioner appealed the matter to us, and we dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider , which we denied as 
untimely filed. 2 
On a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider , the Petitioner contends that its previous motion 
was submitted timely and that our decision was based on "a legal error misapplying the existing 
regulations and an abuse of discretion ." 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration , a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
1 See Matter of E-G-, ID# 1668798 (AAO October 25, 2018). 
2 See ID# 3606848 (AAO March 28, 2019) 
proceedings at the time of the decision. A petitioner must support its motion to reconsider with a 
pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or Department of Homeland Security policy. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The primary issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner established that she timely filed her previous 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The record reflects that we issued our prior decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal on 
October 25, 2018, and the Petitioner filed her motion on Thursday, November 29, 2018, 35 days after 
the decision was issued. A motion must be filed within 33 calendar days of the date USCIS served the 
unfavorable decision by mail. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), 103.8(b). When computing the period 
of time for filing an appeal or motion USCIS counts every calendar day (including Saturdays, Sundays, 
and legal holidays) starting the first calendar day after the date USCIS mailed the unfavorable decision. 
If the last day of the filing period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the period to file an 
appeal runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 
C.F.R. § 1.2.3 
On motion, the Petitioner contends that the previous motion was timely filed. In support, she submits 
a brief in which she asserts as follows: 
The 30th day of the filing fell on Saturday, November 24, 2018 ..... The next day which 
was not on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday was Monday, November 26, 2018 .... 
8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b) provides for 3 days for to respond by mail. This [motion] must have 
been received by Thursday, November 29, 2019. AAO confirmed in the Notice of Denial 
that it was received on November 29, 2019. ACCORDNGLY, THE MOTION TO 
REOPEN/RECONSIDER WAS SUBMITTED TIMELY WITHIN THE PERIOD 
PRESCRIBED BY THE REGULATIONS. 
(Emphasis in original). 
The last day of the filing period applicable to the Petitioner's motion fell on Tuesday, 
November 27, 2018. The Petitioner has not cited to any of the aforementioned sources of authority in 
support of her assertion that we should not count the Saturday and Sunday preceding the last day of 
the relevant filing period. The Petitioner, therefore, does not specifically identify the nature of our 
alleged legal error. 
As the Petitioner has not provided evidence to support her claims, nor alleged an incorrect application 
of law or policy in our prior decision, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen 
or a motion to reconsider. 
3 The Petitioner cites to a similar provision at 8 C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h), applicable to appeals that fall under the jurisdiction of 
the Board of Immigration Appeals. 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7630282 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business consultant for the fitness industry, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
established that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirement, it did not establish that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim or is one of the few at the very top of the field of business 
consulting. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he at the time of filing he was the executive director ofl~---~ 
.._ ______ __., a consultancy specializing in the fitness industry, and that he intends to come to 
the United States to continue to advise prospective and current gym owners. 1 
A. Background 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, service as a 
judge of the work of others, and leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets three additional evidentiary criteria which he previously 
claimed. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the criterion relating to a leading or critical role, and withdraw that portion of 
the decision. Further, because we do not find that the Petitioner meets any of the additional claimed 
criteria, he has not met the initial evidentiary requirement. Accordingly we need not conduct a final 
merits determination. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of the .__ _______ __. at an event described as the 
I I International Convention on Physical Activity" consists of a letter and a brief article in 
Mercado Fitness, a fitness industry trade magazine serving the Latin American market. In the letter, I l president ofl I which organized the convention, states that the award' s 
purpose is "to reward professionals who excel in the area of business management and, through their 
actions, contribute to the market development." He further writes that the Petitioner received this 
award "based on the excellent evaluations of the participants at the events organized byl I' 
1 Several media a1iicles in the record refer to the Petitioner's consulting business as i I' and we note that the evidence 
submitted in support of his claim to a high salary refers to income received from I 1, As the evidence 
does not indicate whether any relationship exists between I I or.__ ______ ~' a~d 'I I I I' the Petitioner should address this issue in any further proceedings in this matter. 
2 
and notes that the Petitioner took part in six of those events as a speaker. The article, which confirms 
the Petitioner's receipt of this award, includes a photo of the Petitioner holding a trophy and a quote 
from him with much of the same language as appears inl Is letter. 
While the above evidence suggests that the award is given for excellence in the Petitioner's field, the 
record does not establish that the I I is nationally or internationally recognized. One 
additional article submitted focuses on the I I event, of which the convention was a part, and 
mentions the convention and the awards presented only in passing. A second article, which appears 
to be a description of the sixteenth occurrence of the convention produced b~ I, mentions 
the names of the award winners in that year. However, the record does not include a description of 
the nature of these websites or the organizations they are tied to, and the report from SimilarWeb 
which was submitted for each does not indicate that either has a widespread viewership or traffic rate 
on a national or international level. This evidence, including the brief article in Mercado Fitness, is 
insufficient to demonstrate that the I [ is a nationally or internationally recognized award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged several articles in the record that were published in Spanish 
and/or Portuguese language fitness industry trade magazines, including Mercado Fitness, Fitness 
Business Latin America, and Revista Empressario Fitness, but found that while these articles include 
quotations from the Petitioner, they were not "mainly" about him. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the articles were about him and his expert opinion. However, a 
review of the evidence shows that the articles were about topics relating to the fitness industry, and 
included opinions not just from the Petitioner but other industry experts as well. For instance, the 
article which appeared in the issue of Mercado Fitness is titled j I 
This article begins by describing the I lnarket 
segment, including a short definition of this type of lym from the Petitioner. However, it then goes 
on to describe a particular I I gym inl Brazil, and includes quotations from the gym's 
owner describing its services. Therefore, this published material is not about the Petitioner, but about I lgyms in general and this specific gym in particular. 
An article that more extensively quotes the Petitioner, titled.__ _______ ____.' was published 
in the'--~--~----' issue of Fitness Business. This article focuses on the management of 
finances for managers in the fitness industry, and includes several tips from the Petitioner and another 
consultant. Although the Petitioner is identified as a consultant and his professional opinion presented, 
no other information is given about him or his work in the field. 
While the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's decision regarding this criterion "is a clear 
and material error" because it found that "not one of the articles presented was about the [Petitioner]," 
he does not identify a particular article which he feels most strongly supports his assertion. Upon 
review of all of the articles in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from representatives of thel I Brazil trade show which 
confirms that he helped to select speakers for the show and served as a judge on the panel for the •c=J I ~ in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We therefore agree with the Director that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes copies of several articles authored by the Petitioner, many in 2004 and 2005 but 
some more recently. These articles were written to provide professional business advice to current 
and prospective gym owners, and appeared in trade publications including Fitness Business Latin 
America and Mercado Fitness. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate both that he played 
a leading or critical role, and that the organization or establishment for which that role was played is 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
the Petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
role is or was, in fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather the alien's performance in the 
role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 
The Petitioner submitted pages from the website of his business,,.__ __________ ___, which 
briefly describe the services offered and also include his professional profile, with a list of speaking 
engagements, articles written or contributed to, and consulting projects completed. However, the 
record does not include documentary evidence of the nature or size of this organization, and so does 
not provide sufficient information to determine whether the Petitioner acted as a leader, or played a 
critical role for an organization. We note that in the media articles authored by the Petitioner, as well 
as those in which he provided commentary or was mentioned, his is the only name mentioned in 
connection with his business or the consulting projects to which he contributed. In addition, the profile 
also references the Petitioner's establishment of a gym focused on aqua gymnastics and indicates that 
this grew into a business with six locations and over 150 employees, but the record lacks corroborating 
documentary evidence to support these claims. 
The record also includes evidence regarding the Petitioner's work on individual consulting projects 
for his consulting company, which were submitted as evidence of the companrs reputation~ 
fitness industry. For example, an article about a new fitness facility inl Brazil, calledl_J I ~ was published in Fitness Business and briefly mentions that he consulted on the project, 
4 
but does not describe the extent of his contribution. Further, while a similar article in Mercado Fitness 
indicates that he served as the "consultant and architect responsible for the project," a different article 
in the magazine Epoca names another person as the architect. In addition, the evidence regarding 
another project on which the Petitioner consulted,,.__ ________ ..., in~ Brazil, consists of 
several articles about its opening and operation, but only a brief mention in a single article noting that 
the owner "has the advice of the [Petitioner.]" Although this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner 
had some role in these visible projects, it does not provide detail about the nature or extent of his or 
his company's contribution. It is therefore not sufficient to establish that I I has or had a distinguished reputation in the business consulting indus .... tr_y_. _______ _. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion on a document described as a copy of his 2017 Brazilian 
tax return, as well as salary surveys from several sources. We first note that the document presented 
as the Petitioner's tax return is only partially translated from Portuguese into English, with potentially 
relevant information missing from the translation. Any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Because the Petitioner 
did not submit a complete English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully 
determine whether the translated material provides an accurate picture of his remuneration and 
supports his claims. 
In addition, the translation provides no information regarding the preparation or filing of the tax return 
it is meant to represent. Without such information, we cannot determine whether the figure included 
in the original document and the translation represent accurate, verifiable figures which were reported 
to the appropriate Brazilian tax authority. 
We also note that among the figures shown are "taxable income" of R$ 11,244 and "exempt and non­
taxable income" of R$ 771,282, with the source indicated as ~---------~' in both 
cases. However, there is no further explanation in the record of the source of these funds, such as 
whether they resulted from salary paid, services rendered or other financial or business transactions, 
or whether they reflect payments for work completed in previous years. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
not established that this evidence and the figures reported represent an accurate basis for comparison 
to the remuneration of other similar professionals in his field of endeavor. While the record includes 
salary surveys for what appear to be similar positions, there is no indication of whether these figures 
also include taxable and non-taxable income, or whether these are national average salaries or 
particular to the Petitioner's location.2 Therefore, for all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13476972 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research assistant professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record does not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is current! ed as an assistant research professor at the ~I------~ 
L...--------r-------,___JUniversity. He received his bachelor's degree in biomedical 
sciences from University in 2004 and his doctor of philosophy from I I 
~-------~Veterinary College in the I I in 2011. Fallowing completion of 
study, he worked as a post-doctoral fellow at the University ofl I 
hool of Dentistry from 2011 to 2013, and as a senior post-doctoral fellow at the University 
s Centre of OrthopaediF and Trauma Research in I I from 2013 until 2017 Ibj 
Petitioner's research focuses on thel '---------------------------' bone formation and bone health. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet four of the regulatory criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria, relating to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. The record supports these conclusions as it reflects that 
the Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication to professional journals 
including Frontiers in Endocrinology, iScience, and Bone, thus satisfying the judging criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv). He has also authored scholarly articles in professional publications including 
PLOS One, Journal of Bone and Mineral Research, Biotechniques, and others. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director erred in determining that he did not provide 
evidence satisfying the two remaining claimed criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all the 
evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner offered his Google Scholar citation history and submitted 
copies of six articles from scientific journals in which the authors cited to one of the Petitioner's 
published articles. The Petitioner explained that in the field of scientific research "articles are rarely 
written about a scientist or his or her work." 
The Director acknowledged the submitted evidence but determined that citations to the Petitioner's 
work do not satisfy this criterion because they are not published material "about" the Petitioner. On 
appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that "in scientific research, articles are not written solely about a 
scientist or his or her work" and suggests that articles that cite to his work should therefore be sufficient 
to meet this criterion, noting that some of the articles directly reference him by name. 
The Petitioner's claim is not persuasive. As noted by the Director, the published material must be 
"about" the individual, meaning that both the Petitioner and his work should be the focus of an article 
in order for it to satisfy all elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Here, the published 
materials submitted are about the research studies performed by the articles' authors. They are not 
about the Petitioner, nor are they about the dozens of other researchers whose work is also cited by 
the same authors. Although the Petitioner claims that articles about scientists are "rarely written," he 
is not exempted from his burden to establish that the submitted evidence meets each element of the 
regulatory criterion. Here, the evidence does not meet this burden. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his publications 
and conference presentations, his citation history, copies of six articles that cite his work, and nine 
recommendation letters from colleagues, former colleagues and other scientists who discuss his 
research and standing in the field. 2 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 While we do not discuss every letter individually in this decision, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted recommendation letters "explain in 
great detail the multiple original, significant contributions [he] has made in the field of musculoskeletal 
systems and I t' and, when considered with evidence of his publications, presentations and 
citations, are sufficient to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that he satisfies this criterion. 
Specifically, he states that his journal articles and conference presentations provide evidence of his 
original contributions, while the expert letters explain their significance, and his Google Scholar 
citation report confirms that significance. 3 
The Petitioner highlights five original scientific contributions in his appellate brief: which we will 
discuss in tum below. 
First, the Petitioner emphasizes that he was "the first scientist to discover I.__ ______ ___. 
The record reflects 
that he published four articles based on his graduate research in this area, most notably an article 
published in PloS One in 2012 that had been cited 56 times at the time of filing. A letter from D I I Executive Director at the.__ ______ ---;:=====::;---- states that 
"this novel work is of articular im ortance, as defects in skeletal! I have been shown to 
result in a and subse uen~ f, a "major concern due 
to the agilg poplulation of the US.".__ _______ _,, who co-supervised the Petitioner's Ph.D. 
project at Veterinary College, explains that "identifying the regulatory mechanisms that govern I p is essential for the development of new therapeutics to maintain bone mass and 
structure." He also notes that the Petitioner presented his graduate research work at thel I I I annual meetings, where he received awards for best poster presentation and best scientific 
abstract. 
The publication and presentation of the Petitioner's research in this area establish the originality of the 
work, and we acknowledge that his research relates to understandingc::J diseases that impact many 
people as they age. The letters, however, are insufficient to confirm that the impact or influence of 
the Petitioner's research contributions in this field has risen to the level of "major significance." For 
example, '-------~ letter suggests that the Petitioner's work resulted in incremental 
advancements in researchers' understanding of .__ _________________ __.but he 
does not explain its remarkable impact on either farther research or advancements in the field, or 
indicate whether or how it has been essential to the development of "new therapeutics." A letter from 
, who also supervised the Petitioner's graduate research atl I Veterinary '----------~ College, notes that his PloS One article has been cited over 50 times and states that "the high level of 
interest in his work demonstrates the importance of these findings." However, the fact that the 
Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a 
contribution of major significance. Without any additional context or comparative data, we cannot 
determine that 50 or more citations would reflect such significance in the Petitioner's field. 
3 The Petitioner listed 21 peer-reviewed articles in his cover letter, and we note that several of the letters mention his '"more 
than 20 articles." The submitted Google Scholar profile shows that he has been the author of approximately 50 
publications, with approximately half of those having at least one citation. According to Google Scholar, nearly half of 
his cumulative citations were attributed to two review articles co-authored by him rather than to aiticles that described his 
original research. Citations to individual articles will be discussed in this section. 
4 
The Petitioner highlights another research study in which he 'I I 
factors otj I the regulation of a kidne re ulating factor made byl I 
the effects of muscle secreted factors on differentiation, and gene profiling of the 
' He states that his work in this area '-----------------------------' "was so significant that he published an article about it," referring to an article that appeared in 
Molecular and Cellular Endocrinology in 2015. He emphasizes that the article had been cited 74 
times as of the date of filing this petition, as evidence that "many others in the field found the work 
compelling and important." While we note that citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the 
Petitioner's work in the field, they do not, by themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the 
nature of that discussion or the impact of his work on the field. That context must be provided by 
other evidence in the record. Here, none of the submitted recommendation letters discuss the 
Petitioner's research in this area and he does not farther explain how his research contribution has 
influenced or impacted the field. 
The third contribution the Petitioner describes in his brief relates to his identification of "a novel 
mech~nism by whic .__ ___ __, ____________________ __,' In her letter, 
!explains that while is "one of the most effective treatments currently available for 
.__in_d_u_c-in_g __ ...,I formation," its "mechanism of action is still not folly known." She states that the 
Petitioner's "identification of the activation ofthd I I I has important therapeutic implications for disease~ such~~~ ~ I" but she do~s not 
elaborate as to how the Petitioner's research contribution has had a remarkable impact on farther 
research or on the therapeutic use o±LJ 
The record reflects that the Petitioner ublished a a er titled 
.__ ________ _.' in PloS One in 2015 which had garnered 24 citations at the time the petition 
was filed. The Petitioner also provided evidef ce that this paper was one of 108 puh)icatioos cited in 
a 2018 review article b~ ~titled_ ~ (JBMR 
Plus). I I summarizes the research in this area over the last three decades, noting that many 
groups ofresearchers (includin the Petitioner's have "illuminated many of the cellular and molecular 
mechanisms" through whic .__ ____________ _. The author concludes that a more 
thorough understanding of these mechanisms "will be necessary to design new and improved future I I treatments." The Petitioner argues that the evidence demonstrates that his research has 
brought the field "one step closer for finding therapies for diseases such asl t' While the 
record supports a conclusion that the Petitioner made an original contribution through the publication 
of his paper, it does not demonstrate that this contribution is one that has been recognized for its major 
significance in the field. 
The two remainin ori inal contributions the Petitioner describes relate to his develo ment and 
publication of The 
Petitioner ex lains that he 
----~----~~......,,........,~~- .......... ~-~----" The record reflects that the Petitioner 
published this research in Calc[fied Tissue International in 2014 and that his article had been cited 56 
times when this petition was filed. I lstates that this technique "has provided an abundant 
source of cells for studying I" and refers to scientists who relied on this technique to study I In their own published research. I ~ Professor of Orthopaedic 
5 
Research at University ofl I where the Petitioner developed the technique, states that the 
'-------------.==-=m=-o-=-d::.e:...:l:...::.;-for studying disorders ofl I was important because 
most studies investigating! I biology have used mouse cells and cell lines, "which do not 
adequately represent what occurs in human tissues." He states that the Petitioner's cell model has 
become a "standard technique" in his laboratory. 
Finally, the Petitioner explains that he was the first scientist to develop a technique to extract! I 
.__ _____________ ____.I samples, noting tha~ 0 k had previously been 
extracted from rodent bones or other transformed cell lines. He states that this contribution is 
significant because '------------------~ relevant for human drug therapies, 
which will allow other researchers to advance their own research in the field to find effective thera 1es 
foj !diseases." He published his research, .__ __________________ ____. 
in Bone in 2016 and the record reflects that it had been cited 15 times as of the date of filing. 
Several of the recommendation letters highlight these contributions. I I who co-
authored the paper, states that the technique will "farther the study of diseases such as I I 
and "enable researchers to stud~ I in a model that is much 
~m-o-re-cl-in_i_c-al-ly-re~levant." I l states that the Petitioner's cell model techniques "have had a 
major impact in the field of1 I biology" noting thatll "are notoriously difficult 
cells to isolate from I" He farther state~ell culture models "have 
advanced not only [the Petitioner's] own research but also that of otherl I researchers" 
and identifies three articles that relied on the Petitioner's cell model techniques.I I, another 
co-author of the Petitioner's Bone article, confirms that the Petitioner was "the first researcher to 
successfully.__ ____________ ~' and states that "[t]his techni~ue is now used by 
other researchers in my laboratory, as well as scientists in the UK and Europe." [ lalso 
notes the use of this technique in laboratories located in Australia, Europe and Asia and states that 
"[t]his clearly demonstrates the wide-reaching impact of [the Petitioner's research] and its national 
and international importance." Finally,.__ _______ ____. ofj I University School of 
Medicine, states that both of the techniques described above "have become essential and widely used 
tools within thel ~ field, as evidenced by the numerous publications in which these 
techniques were used." 
The letters confirm the originality of the Petitioner's work in developing the two I I cell model 
techniques discussed above. While the testimonial evidence corroborates the Petitioner's claim that 
these techniques represented improvements to existing methods of'----~---~~~---=-' I I, statements about the widespread implementation of these techniques appear to be based 
solely on the number of articles that cite to the Petitioner's 2016 article published in Bone (15 citations) 
and 2014 article published in Calc[fied Tissue International (56 citations). Again, we emphasize that 
citation rates provide evidence of discussion of the Petitioner's work in the field. They do not, by 
themselves, provide sufficient context to determine the nature of that discussion or the impact of his 
work on the field to meet this criterion. Further, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence 
showing that the citation frequency noted confirms that his work has provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of 
major significance in the field." For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually 
high in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly 
significant. 
6 
The submitted articles citing to the Petitioner's techniques indicate that researchers in his field are 
continually investigating new and more efficient methods for.__ _________ __, and that the 
Petitioner's research has contributed to these advancements. For example, a 2019 article b 
et al. (International Journal of Molecular Science) compares the Petitioner's.__..--------
described in his 2016 Bone article with two other methods for obtaining.__ ___ _. through 
differentiation of.__ ______ __, The authors describe the Petitioner's method as "not very 
efficient" because the process is "very time consuming and only a few cells are obtained." The record 
reflects that other studies o~.__ __ ___.~ have relied on the Petitioner's techniques to obtain cells for 
research, but its overall impact or influence on research in the field has not been demonstrated. 
While the record, including the reference letters, establishes that the Petitioner's research has value 
and has received some attention in the field, it is insufficient to confirm that the impact or influence 
of his work has risen to the level of "major significance" in the field. He has not submitted sufficient 
evidence demonstrating that his research has provoked widespread commentary or that it has received 
notice from others at a level indicative of its "major significance" in the field, as required under the 
criterion. Accordingly, based on the relevant documents in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13883616 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who works in film and television productions. The record reflects that she 
worked as a~----------~ in Canada prior to transitioning to an acting career. She 
relocated to the United States in 2014 and is a member of the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television 
and Radio Artists (ACTRA) and Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio 
Artists (SAG-AFTRA). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet seven of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vii), Display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of these seven criteria, relating to judging the 
work of others in her field. The record reflects that the Petitioner was a member of the I I I !Nominating Committee for the 25th Annual Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards in 
2018. Based on the evidence provided regarding the SAG Awards nomination process, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner has met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision contains multiple errors and oversights 
and asserts that she meets six additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met a second criterion, relating to the 
display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. However, she has not established, as required, 
that she satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from various Canadian print and online publications. The 
Director determined that none of the submitted articles meet all requirements set forth in this 
regulation. The Director observed that two of the articles are about the Petitioner and relate to her 
work as an actor, but found insufficient evidence to establish that the articles, published byl I 
magazine and actorsentertainment.com, respectively, appeared in professional, major trade or major 
media publications. He farther noted that many of the articles were published in the late 1990s and 
early 2000s when the Petitioner was working as ~ I for a Canadian television station serving 
thel I area. The Director classified some of this evidence as "local media" and 
determined that these articles do not relate to the Petitioner's work in the field for which classification 
is sought (in this case, acting). Finally, the Director noted that some of the submitted articles only 
briefly mention the Petitioner and are therefore not "about her" while other articles did not include the 
author of the material as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director did not provide sufficient explanation to support 
his determination that she did not satisfy this criterion. She states, for example, that the Director did 
not identify which articles were deemed to be "local media," specify which articles were lacking 
information regarding the author, or address why the information she provided regarding the 
circulation statistics for various publications was insufficient to establish that they are "major media." 
The Petitioner also contends that the Director should have given foll consideration to older articles 
that relate to her work as a I l noting that her career in I I garnered her 
recognition that allowed her to successfully transition td I acting roles. 
Turning to the submitted evidence, we acknowledge that both the I I magazine and 
actorsentertainment.com articles are about the Petitioner and relate to her work as an actor. The article 
from actorsentertainment.com (which includes an embedded interview on the website's ActorsE Chat 
show) was accompanied by a screenshot from website.informer.com indicating that the website has 
267 daily visitors, 534 daily page views and an "Alexa Rank" of 4,967,327. The article from I I 
was not accompanied by any information regarding the magazine, its intended audience, or its 
circulation or distribution statistics in comparison to other publications, information which the 
Petitioner maintains she has been unable to obtain.1 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that evidence of published material in 
3 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from 
actorsentertainment.com indicating that its ActorsE Chat streaming show has over 1500 episodes and 
over 6.9 million viewers. The Petitioner submitted an article from Deadline which provides ratings 
for ABC network's Thursday night lineup, showing that its top-rated show had 6.48 million viewers. 
She stated that "if this is considered a top major program then it stands to reason that ActorsE Chat 
would be considered the same" and should qualify as a major medium. However, the evidence does 
not establish that Actors£ Chat enjoys an audience comparable to that of a major network television 
show. Based on the limited information provided, it appears that its 1500+ episodes have cumulatively 
garnered 7 million views over the course of its 10 seasons; the evidence does not establish that this is 
the typical viewership for any of its online video interviews or the associated articles. In order to show 
that actorsentertainment.com qualifies as a major medium in its online category, the Petitioner would 
need to submit comparative website statistics. The information provided at the time of filing, showing 
an "Alexa Rank" of 4,967,327, does not support the Petitioner's claim that actorsentertainment.com 
is a major medium. The Petitioner did not provide other comparative data showing this website's 
ranking in relation to similar websites. 
With respect to the article published i~ I magazine, the Petitioner reiterates on appeal that she 
has been unable to obtain evidence regarding the magazine's circulation or distribution in relation to 
other, similar publications. She provides the resume for the author who wrote the article about her 
and asserts that since the author is a paid professional writer, the article qualifies as a "professional 
publication." Her argument that any article written by a professional writer is a "professional 
publication" is not persuasive. A professional publication is typically one which has members of a 
specific profession as its target audience and would include, for example, a scientific journal. The 
limited evidence in the record regardin~ I does not establish that it qualifies as a professional, 
major trade publication or other major medium. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles fro 
are not about her and relating to her work. A 2011 article titled r-------.-----------------' I t' is an interview with.__ ___ ____. the Petitioner's co-star in the movie I I This article includes one sentence about the Petitioner noting has a lead role in 
this movie and was formerly a I I at 's station. She is not 
otherwise mentioned in the three-page article, which is abou .__ __ ___. rather than about her. 
Other articles froml I date from the Petitioner's tenure as an.__ ______ _, 
,___ _ ____.I A 1999 article titled l I (from the newspaper's fashion section) is limited to a 
photograph of the Petitioner, with a caption that identifies where she bought her outfit and how much 
she paid for it. Two articles published in 2000 are about Thel ~ move to a new studio. One 
article includes a photograph of the Petitioner and her I I but she is only briefly 
mentioned in the body of the article. The other article is about a party held to celebrate the opening of 
the new studio and appeared in the newspaper's Food section; the Petitioner appears in a captioned 
photograph. A photocopy of a clipping from another article titled '------------~ I I is largely illegible but appears to include a photograph of the Petitioner 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
identifying her as ~ I A 1998 clipping from the "Letters" section of the newspaper 
includes a photograph of the Petitioner identifying her as a ~-----,--~ but there is no 
accompanying article. None of the referenced articles or captioned photographs qualify as published 
material "about" the Petitioner and relating to her work. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor).2 
Further, several of the newspaper clippings have only handwritten notations identifying the date of 
publication and identifying the source of the article a · this required information 
is not identified on the copied portion of the newspaper itself. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a clipping of ar-=n=ew.;..;...;;;;s=ai;;..e=r=--=art=...;:;;;.;ic='l..;;;..e....;;t=it=le:;..:d;:;....a_ __ ---,.... ______ __, 
I I which is about the new ownership of the and its rebrandin 
asl I The article discusses the Petitioner's move to the.__ __________ _. 
However, the article does not include the date or title of the publication or identify the author of the 
article as required by the regulation. As with several of the other articles attributed to I I I I the date of publication and I I have been handwritten on the provided 
photocopy. 
The Petitioner also rovided several articles ublished b A 1997 article titled D 
'includes two photographs of the Petitioner L---------r--------------,_J identifying her as .__ ____________ ___.' but the accompanying article, only a portion 
of which is provided, does not mention her and is not about her. A 1998 article titled 1 I 
I ~ is also about I I' It mentions the Petitioner in a photo caption and notes 
that she would be I I but the article is about changes at the 
TV station and was not written about her. 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that she has appeared inl l which is described on its 
cover as..,....----------,--~ One article from the Winter 2002 edition provided coverage 
of the 2 is.__ ________ __. uction and includes a photograph of the Petitioner with a caption 
identifying her as "celebrity auctioneer." A 2000 article title 1 I I I' is about the new ownership of thd.___~~tation. The Petitioner did not provide the complete 
article and she is not mentioned in the portion provided. She appears in a captioned photograph. 
For the reafons disrusse<l th] ~7-does not establish that the articles that appeared in the 
publications ,I I an~ ~re about the Petitioner. Further, 
several of the copies provided are ac ~mg cert am elements required by the regulation, including the 
date, title and/or author of the material. Nevertheless, we have also considered the Petitioner's claims 
that these publications qualify as major media. She asserts that both.__ _____ __, and D 
I I are owned by "one of the top leading daily newspaper ownership groups in Canada" and 
she compares their respective current circulation figures to those of the top 10 U.S. newspapers (as of 
2020). She has not provided evidence re ardin their respective circulation rankings among Canadian 
daily newspapers and her claims tha publications should be considered 'Tai or media " 
because .__ ___________ _,are not persuasive. She also emphasizes that I 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
5 
magazine "is distributed as an insert in the foll circulation of Canada's largest newspaper, I.__ __ ___. I I There is evidence supporting thatl I qualifies as major media in Canada, 
but as noted, the submitted articles froml I did not satisfy the other requirements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner did not claim to meet this criterion at the time of filing. However, in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), she stated that she "created a TV Reality Series calle~ I ~ in 2017 and later teamed up with producd I and director! I inl 12019 
to farther develop and produce the show, which would see me as the executive producer, original 
concept, and main host/performer." The Petitioner explains that the show concept would have been 
presented to potential buyers/distributors at thel I pitch event in 2020 but notes that 
the event was canceled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The record contains evidence related to the 
show, including a synopsis, a budget (drafted November 2019 with a projected start date of March 
2021), a co-production contract, and an IMDb page. The Petitioner emphasizes that the producers and 
directors continue to work on the show's development. 
In evaluating this criterion, the Director emphasized that the show is still in development, would not 
air until 2021 at the earliest, and therefore could not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as of the date 
of filing. The Director also observed that the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her work on this 
project qualifies as an original contribution of major significance in the performing arts. Finally, the 
Director questioned how the Petitioner's proposed role as the host of this show would be "germane to 
[her] achievements as an actress." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that thel !concept is original and emphasizes that she is 
credited as its creator. With respect to the Director's assertion that her prospective role as host of the 
show would not be "germane," she emphasizes that it was her role as al I that 
initially qualified her for entry to ACTRA (Canada's union for professionals working in movies and 
television) and asserts that a host, like an actor, is a performing artist. She acknowledges that the show 
would not be scheduled to air prior to 2021, but notes that the concept, budget, and co-production 
agreement were in place prior to the filing of the petition. Finally, in response to the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish how her show concept is a contribution of major 
significance to the performing arts field, she states that "[ s ]ubmitting the budget is quantitative proof 
of the impact the show would have on the US economy and especially for others in my field of 
endeavor who would obtain work and income from this project." She asserts that she submitted 
6 
evidence that the show will make "a significant contribution to the performing arts, the US economy, 
American families and the United States as a whole." 
While we agree with the Petitioner that her proposed hosting role can be deemed to fall within her area 
of expertise in the performing arts, her other arguments with respect to this criterion are not persuasive. 
The evidence sup[corts her claim that the show concept, proposed budget and co-production agreement 
forl existed at the time the petition filed in December 2019. However, none of this 
evidence is sufficient to establish the "major significance" of a television series that has not yet found 
a distributor, filmed an episode, or aired before a viewing audience. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the 
filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). For the purposes of meeting this 
criterion, she must provide evidence of an original contribution or contributions that have already been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or µ.aY.e.., 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. She has not established that her show concept foil__J I lhas had this impact and her projections regarding its potential artistic and economic impact 
are not sufficient to meet her burden. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." We disagree with the 
Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only 
to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own 
work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 3 As such, certain exhibitions or showcases featuring the 
work of performing artists may meet the plain language of this regulation. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner was credited with a significant role in the 2010 Canadian 
film I I which was screened at several film festivals including the~-------~ I I Film Festival and I I Film Festival. In contrast to commercial movie releases, a given 
film festival may select films for screening based on their artistic merits and thus may be deemed an 
exhibition or showcase of the work of the artists involved. Based on the evidence submitted regarding 
the screening of I I at film festivals, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 9-10 (stating that officers should use the common 
dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
7 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her 
performances in television shows, movies and a miniseries and discussed several of the 
recommendation letters she provided. However, he determined that the evidence did not establish her 
leading role or demonstrate that her performances contributed in a way that was of significant 
importance to the outcome of a studio or production company. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she performed "leading and critical roles for the biggest television 
shows rnllrently on air" in reference to her single ersodP12l?earances on award-winning series□ I I ll andl__J. She also em hasizes that she was cast 
in critical roles in several made-for-television movies that ap 
of the Emmy-nominated miniserid I on the eared on network, in an episode 
winning I hioviel I and in I~--~ Channel, in thd laward 
an official selection of several film 
festivals. 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments," 
and the Petitioner has not established that any of these productions themselves constitute organizations 
or establishments. Therefore, even if we determined that she held a leading or critical role for a 
distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
As noted by the Director, the Petitioner also submitted letters from representatives of production 
companies and other organizations to establish that she meets this criterion. The letters, however, do not 
establish that she held a leadin or critical position for these organizations. 4 I J vice 
president of mentions the Petitioner's roles in thd l moviel I 
and in th~---~movi ~--~ and notes that he produced both movies forl I While he 
asserts that the Petitioner's performances in these movies were critical to the individual productions, he 
does not indicate whether or how she served in a critical role for.__ ___ ~ _ ___. The Petitioner 
subsequently submitted an updated letter froml lthat was identical to the first, but included a 
statement that the Petitioner's "performances have contributed greatly to the success ofl I 
in garnering the necessary investment dollars through her popularity as a talented actress whose 
performances consistently resonate with, and draw, a worldwide audience." We agree with the Director's 
determination that these general assertions are not substantiated in the record and are insufficient on their 
own to demonstrate the Petitioner's leading or critical role with! I The record does not include, for 
example, evidence that links the Petitioner's attachment to ::e=] production with a large investment or 
other demonstrable evidence of her impact on the company's finances. 
We have also considered a letter !rum director and produce~ I who slate that t" worked wi~ 
the Petitioner on an episode oi I documentary seriesl foJ I 
Channel. He praises her "outstanding performance" and asserts that it contributed to the critical and 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 
commercial success of the production. He also refers to.__ _________ a_s_"_a_n_a_c_cl_a~imed production 
company." But I I does not claim to be a representative of 
'---,----:------=t Channel and his letter does not establish how the Petitioner's role in an episode of.__ ____ ____, 
leading or critical to either of those organizations . 
.__ ____ _.I President/Executive Producer o~ .... ________ ____.I, also provided a letter in support 
of the petition. He states that his com ortant and critical roles" in numerous 
productions includingg,1.. ______ .....J..JL__~ __ _J'Jr-----,--------' I I and.__ _________ ~ .... __ ~ movie. He ._a_d_dr_e_s-se_s,-----,..s_. 
distinguished reputation and asserts that the network approved of casting the Petitioner in I I because of her talent and proven versatility. Whild lstates that he has .... w-o-rk_e_d_w-ith~ 
the Petitioner on eight productions, he does not state how her involvement on these projects has impacted 
the activities o~ I in a way that is commensurate with performing in a leading or 
critical role with that organization. Nor does his letter establish that he is able to speak to the Petitioner's 
leading or critical role forl I 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from who indicates that she produced the Canadian 
realit~ I series .__ _____ ____, for . The record reflects that the 
Petitioner hosted this show, which aired nationwide in Canada o ~---~ for two seasons (2004 to 
2005).1 I states that the effect of the Petitioner's work "on sales" was "measurable" and 
noted that "we were able to track consumer response from week to week.'I I states that "as 
a direct result of her participation on the show" the Petitioner "had a substantial influence onl I I I (a Canada-based home improvement roduct retailer), as well as on the show's 
sponsors, including! 6 and I I Whil a ears to be in a position 
to discuss whether the Petitioner held a leading or critical role wit .__ ______ _., she does not 
provide sufficient detail to establish that the Petitioner held such a role, nor does the record contain 
evidence ot1 I distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not submitted letters from l I or from the sponsors mentioned by I !explaining how her role as host of .... I _ ____, 
1 ..... ----~I was leading or critical for any of those organizations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence ofl I's 2004 purchase of another building supplies 
company for $1...0.fil4 and states that "I argue that the show and my role on the show was a significant 
contribution toL....Js earning muscle to be able to make such a huge acquisition." She also emphasizes 
tha~was eventually sold tol lin 2016 and asserts that I lwas a large part of 
the attraction for the sale as it enhancen as a 'well-known brand."' As noted, the Petitioner does 
not offer a letter from a representative~ I. or its successor, or any eyidence o~her thanc=J I ts letter, in support of her claims that her hosting role was critical to thel .... __ ____.J organization 
as a whole. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml la general sales manager with I ~ b l and former chairperson of the I O _ 
He states that he invited the Petitioner to serve on the charil's board and notes that during her 
association, "the organization reached record donations." I expresses that he is "confident that 
her participation and reputation assisted greatly to that record." On appeal, the Petitioner supplements 
the record with additional evidence of her involvement inl I charitable events, mostly during 
her tenure as '----------~ She has not established that her involvement with these 
9 
organizations and events meets all elements of this criterion and, as noted by the Director, these activities 
do not appear to reflect her achievements as a performing artist. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I Head of International Sales fo~ I a 
French film company. She states that, from 2016 through 2019, the Petitioner "has been an essential art 
of our entertainment team for the critical sales and marketin of r===~=-L----~------------l 
offerings to the international buyers that attend the~-------~ in Santa Monica, CA in 
November." I I refers to the Petitioner as a "vital team member" and credits her with 
responsibility for "many various and demanding tasks and responsibilities that enabled us to work 
smoothly and supported our sales team in the challenging tasks of sales and marketing for France's lar est 
film producer and distributor." We agree with the Director's determination that "-r-------~ 
description of the sales support duties performed by the Petitioner during the r=a=nn=u=a=l.__,__ ___ ___J I ~vent does not establish how she serves in a leading or critical role to th...__ __ ___, organization 
as a whole. 
Finally, the Petitioner emphasizes that she submitted 11 reference letters from fellow actors and industry 
professionals who attest to her achievements and requests that they be reviewed under this criterion as 
"comparable evidence." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the 
listed criteria do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. A petitioner should explain why she has 
not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required. 5 General assertions that 
any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims 
that USCIS should accept recommendation letters as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 6 Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate why an actor cannot ofter evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, she has consistently claimed that she can meet as many of seven of the ten criteria. We note that we 
have considered reference letters that contain information relevant to specific criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in her field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 7 
The Petitioner provided a copy of her 2018 Canadian tax return,8 some of her IRS Forms W-2 for 
2018 and 2019, evidence of contracts and payments she received for work in individual television and 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. at 11 (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
8 This document shows that she earned total income of$80,761.09 (Canadian), most of which was received as "lump-sum 
payments" reported on one or more Forms T4A, copies of which have not been provided. 
10 
movie projects, and evidence of residuals payments made to her. Her claim that she has commanded 
a high salary is primarily based on the hourly or daily wage she has received for her work on certain 
projects. The record does not contain evidence of her overall salary and other remuneration from all 
sources for any given year, nor is it clear based on the evidence submitted how frequently she is 
engaged to work on a project-by-project basis. Many of the projects documented in the record through 
contracts or deal memos required a short commitment ranging from one day to one week. 
The Petitioner provided comparative salary data from several sources, including: Payscale, which 
shows an average actor/actress hourly pay of $19.95 and a 90th percentile wage of $99.43; the 
Department of Labor's Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Online Wage Library, which shows a Level 
4 hourly wage of $48.08 for actors in thel I area; and, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 
which shows that actors in the United States earn a mean hourly wage of $29 .14, with the 90th 
percentile earning at least $60.41. 9 In determining that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion, the 
Director noted that the provided FLC Level 4 and Payscale 90th percentile hourly wages amount to 
annual salaries of over $100,000 and over $200,000 respectively, and that the Petitioner had not 
established that her earnings have reached that level in an given year. 
The Petitioner also provided an online article titled "What are the Typical Starting Average Salaries 
for an Actor?", published by the Houston Chronicle in 2018. The article summarizes 2016 BLS salary 
data for actors, but also includes separate sections addressing the salaries paid to movie and television 
actors, noting that starting salaries for such actors "are defined by [SAG-AFTRA]." According to 
this article, the minimum salary for a television or movie actor hired for one day is $933 and those 
hired for one week earn $3,239 (as of2016). The record also includes a 2009 article from The Toronto 
Star which provides some average annual income figures for Canadian actors, but does not address 
hourly, daily or weekly rates set by ACTRA for television and movie actors. Further, the record 
contains no recent evidence regarding salaries of actors in Canada that could serve as a basis for 
comparison with the income figures reported on the Petitioner's 2018 Canadian tax return. 
Because the Petitioner is a member of SAG-AFTRA and ACTRA working in film and television roles, 
the salary information she provided from Department of Labor and Payscale, which appear to include 
all actors, may not allow a meaningful comparison of her earnings "in relation to others in the field." 
While SAG-AFTRA members may generally earn higher salaries compared to other actors, it is 
reasonable to compare her earnings to that of other professional movie and television actors whose 
pay is dictated by this union scale. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Based on the evidence of payments she received for individual projects, the Petitioner has not 
established that she has commanded a hi~h salary compared to other television and movie actors. She 
provided a copy of her deal memo for the I motion picture I I indicating that she 
was guaranteed compensation at "SAG Scale $3,320 per week+ 10%" for a guaranteed work period 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner also submits 2020 salary data for actors/performers from Sala1ycom. 
11 
of one week for her role asl t'10 We cannot determine based on the evidence submitted 
that earning 10% above the standard salary set by SAG-AFTRA amounts to a "high salary" in relation 
to others. The record reflects that the Petitioner was aid at or ·ust above the standard SAG "day 
~r" rate for her appearances in the television seriesL.---~----1-------~-,____J and 
L_J and "SAG scale" for her roles in commercials fo ~-~ an .__ _______ ____.As noted, 
while the Petitioner submitted various forms of evidence in support of this criterion, the record does 
not clearly show her total salary or total remuneration for her work as an actor in any given year. 
Based on her hourly or daily earnings as documented in the record, she has not established that she 
commands a high salary in comparison to other movie and television actors. 
With respect to her work in Canada, the Petitioner provided evidence that she was aid "ACTRA 
double scale" for her services as the host of the second season of th'l'-'-......,,.......,_,...._ ______ ....1 sen es 
~------~in 2005 and for one day of shooting for an ~-----~video in 2012. 
However, there is insufficient evidence demonstrating that this constitutes a "high salary" for a 
professional host or actor in Canada. As noted, the supporting evidence related to salaries for Canadian 
actors is limited to the above-referenced 2009 Toronto Star article. 
Finally, while the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has received additional remuneration 
for some of her work in the form of residual payments, she has not provided supporting evidence to 
establish that such remuneration has been "significantly high" when compared to the residual 
payments that others in the field receive, or otherwise shown that her total remuneration is significantly 
high. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 11 Fulfilling the criterion is not simply a matter of demonstrating credited 
involvement in a commercially successful film or show. 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on the commercial success of the motion 
picture which achieved $5 million in receipts in its first week of theatrical release and $12 
million in overall.12 She also emphasizes the ratings success of the I I 
television movie~---~ pointing to a press release published by Zap2/t, which indicates that the 
movie was viewed by 3 .4 million viewers and was one of the most watched TV movies of the 
2010/2011 season among female viewers ages 12-34. Finally, on appeal, she submits evidence related 
to DVD sales for the moviel I, in which she played the role of.__ ____ ~' An article 
10 A letter the executive producer oti lstates that the Petitioner was paid $3,652 for a single day of work on the 
film, which is not consistent with the terms of the deal memo specifying that she was paid at the SAG weekly rate. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 On appeJ tbe Petitijner submits an article from www.boxofficemojo.com titled 'I I Box Office for 2018" 
which rank .__ __ _. at number 46 out of 512 movies released inl I during the 2018 calendar year. 
12 
published by the-numbers.com in October 2009 indicates that the DVD sold 95,000 units ($1.42 
million) in its first week ofrelease for a tenth-place finish on "the DVD sales chart." 
Even ifwe concluded based on this evidence that the Petitioner has established the commercial success 
of one or more of these projects, it is her burden to establish that the box office receipts and television 
ratings reflect her individual success in relation to other performing artists and she has not yovided 
sufficient evidrce ta meet tlis burden. She played small roles as al -in both I pnd.__ ____ __, She has not submitted media coverage, reviews, promotional materials, 
or other evidence that associates either movie's box office or sales results with her involvement in the 
project. 
While the record reflects that the Petitioner was cast in._l ~--__.I as the mother of one of the main 
teen characters, it does not include independent evidence demonstrating that the ratings success of the 
movie can be attributed to her inclusion in the cast. The Petitioner provided evidence that several 
actors who appeared in the movie received award nominations for their performances, but the 
Petitioner was not among them, nor is she mentioned in the submitted reviews or rher nromotiona) 
materials about the movie. We acknowledge that[ La Vice President with_ I 
and the producer of states in his letter that the Petitioner's "beautiful and critical 
performance aL-_r----------,1 was, without question, instrumental to the critical acclaim and 
commercial success.__ ___ __,chieved," but he does not elaborate and this general statement is 
insufficient to establish that all elements of this criterion have been met. 
The Petitioner claims on appeal that the Director should have considered the critical success of her 
film and television projects in evaluating whether she satisfied this criterion. As noted by the Director 
in his decision, the plain language of this criterion focuses on commercial successes based on box 
office receipts and sales; it provides no basis for evaluating critical acclaim or success in the 
performing arts in the alternative. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. The prior nonimmigrant approval 
does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a 
different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. An immigrant petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record and a separate burden of proof. In making a determination of 
statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of 
proceeding. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). 
We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Nor are we bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. 
La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), aftd, 248 
F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
13 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19499714 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner (I) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, 
and (2) had established that she seeks to enter the United States in order to continue work in the field 
of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
A one-time achievement or satisfaction of at least three lesser criteria, however, does not, in and of 
itself, establish eligibility for this classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, either a one-time achievement, 
or at least three criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Id. (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner won gold, silver, and bronze medals for the I I at national swimming 
competitions in I between 2014 and 2017, at age 14-1 7. She also competed, but did not medal, 
at international competitions such as the 20151 I Games in I When she filed 
the petition in October 2019, the Petitioner was in the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student 
at the University in I I Kentucky, studying for a bachelor's 
degree in criminal justice and law enforcement administration. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the first two criteria. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner's national titles constituted qualifying prizes or awards, and that her 
membership in thel !National Swimming Team is a qualifying membership. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two other criteria, relating to media coverage and 
leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding 
authorship of scholarly articles, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
relating to prizes and memberships. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner is the subject of two articles published inl I in 2019. A ten-question interview 
appeared in the rint and online editions ofl I A translated online 
article in states that the Petitioner, then 18 years old, secured a copyright for a 
___ training program. 
The articles are about the Petitioner, relating to her work, but she must also show that the articles appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Regarding those publications, the 
Petitioner submits a printout from www.mondotimes.com indicating that "has a circulation of nearly 
one million," and a printout from www.pressreference.com list amongl "most influential 
national news a ers." The Petitioner also submits printouts from SimilarWeb, indicating that the online 
version of has a Country Rank of 25 9, and a Category Rank of 1681 among "News and Media" 
sites. s website has a Country Rank of 1029 and a News and Media Category Rank of 4621. 
The Petitioner must establish that the circulation ( online or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics. 2 Raw numbers do not provide the basis for comparison, and the submitted web printouts do 
not cite sources for I claimed circulation or provide context to support the assertion thatD is 
highly influential. SimilarWeb appears to provide some further context. However, based on the 
submitted evidence, the Petitioner has not established that the newspapers qualify as major media. (The 
Petitioner does not claim that they are professional or trade publications.) It is possible that the 
publications are major media; we make no conclusive finding to the contrary. But we make no 
presumption to that effect, and the submitted materials do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show that 
th publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner does not establish that the rankings ofc=] and 
are consistent with major media. 
In terms of trade publications, the Petitioner submits printouts from the online publications SwimSwam 
and Swimming World. Some of these articles are rosters for then-upcoming meets; others show 
competition results. Each of these articles identifies dozens of swimmers, sometimes with a sentence or 
two identifying the winning or high-placing swimmers. We acknowledge the Petitioner's observation, 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
on appeal, that the Petitioner won some of these events, but nevertheless the articles are brief, overall 
descriptions of swim meets. Those that identify the Petitioner as the winner of a given competition do so 
in a single sentence, within the context of reporting the results of several other events in the same article. 
Because the articles from SwimSwam and Swimming World would not be considered published materials 
about the Petitioner, we need not consider the separate question of whether those publications are 
qualifying media. 3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner's initial claim is that she performed in a leading or critical role for the Swimming and 
Diving Team. The Petitioner further claims, in turn, that the team has a distinguished reputation because 
it "[r]anked first in its Conference and fourth in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics" 
(NAIA), and was "[ f]eatured in SwimSwam, the leading trade publication for the sport of swimming." 
The Petitioner asserts that she "played a critical role" for the team by winning several meets, for example 
"leading the team to its first relay national title." An athlete who routinely outperforms her teammates 
can be said to have a disproportionate influence on the team's standing. But the question of the 
Petitioner's role merits further discussion only if the Petitioner meets the other prong of the regulatory 
criterion by showing that theOSwimming and Diving Team has a distinguished reputation. For the 
reasons discussed below, we conclude that the team does not have such a reputation. 
Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."4 Within this required context, the Petitioner has not established thatD Swimming has a 
distinguished reputation. The program ranks highly within the confines of the NAIA, but collegiate 
swimming in the United States is not limited to NAIA member schools, and the record does not show 
how NAIA athletes rank in relation to athletes in other collegiate associations. 
A printout from College Swimming indicates that team had points as of the 2018-2019 season, 
but it provides no broader context for that figure. The printout does not identify the school with the most 
points, or the association to which that school belongs. Likewise, it does not show how D ranks among 
all collegiate swimming programs nationally. The submitted evidence does not address U.S. collegiate 
swimming programs outside the NAIA, and is, therefore, insufficient to establish thatOSwirnrning has 
a distinguished reputation among collegiate swimming programs in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not established the distinguished reputation of Swimming and Diving 
Team, further analysis of the precise nature of her role in that team would not affect the outcome of our 
decision. We therefore reserve this issue. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner has added a second claim, asserting that she also 
performed in a leading or critical role for thel !National Swimming Team. In a letter, the 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 See https://www .merriam-webster.com/ dictionary/ distinguished. 
4 
President of the I Swimming Federation states that the Petitioner was a member of that team 
when she competed at "international youth games" inl I Israel in 2015; Bulgaria in 2016; 
and I I Czech Republic in 2017. The Federation's president states that the Petitioner "played an 
important role within our Federation" and "helped us maintain our international standing," but he does 
not elaborate. For instance, the official does not say, and the record does not show, that the Petitioner 
won or placed highly at those competitions. In the absence of such results, the official has not explained 
how the Petitioner's role was critical in maintaining the Federation's international standing. In the letter, 
dated June 2019, the official states that the Petitioner "is a prime candidate for our 2020 Olympic Squad," 
but the record does not indicate that the Petitioner subsequently earned a place on that team. 
The Petitioner has not established that, or explained how, her role in thel I National Swimming 
Team was either leading or critical. Membership and participation alone are not leading or critical roles. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a leading or critical role for the team, we 
reserve the related but separate issue of whether the team has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the separate issue of the Petitioner's 
intention to continue working in her area of claimed extraordinary ability cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 5 In this matter, although the Petitioner has not satisfied three 
of the threshold criteria, we will nevertheless briefly address the issue of sustained national or 
international acclaim. We do so, in part, to establish that our conclusions are not simply the result of 
ambiguity from insufficient threshold evidence (relating, for instance, to the Petitioner's media 
coverage in 
As noted above, some of the Petitioner's documented media coverage consists of lists of competitors 
and are not about the Petitioner specifically. The record does not indicate that the Petitioner received 
any media coverage in her nativel while she was in that country, or any individual coverage 
(as distinct from team rosters and meet results) from United States media while she was in the United 
States. This apparent absence of domestic coverage does not readily indicate sustained national or 
international acclaim. We note that the record includes cover images from several issues of Swimming 
World magazine. Most of these cover images show one identified swimmer (for example, Michael 
Phelps). The Petitioner does not claim prominent, individual coverage of this kind in American 
swimming publications. Because the Petitioner competed in the United States from 2017 to 2021, 
against U.S. athletes, it is appropriate to view the Petitioner's performance and recognition in the 
context of U.S. swimming during those years. 
5 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when 
considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
The two submitted articles about the Petitioner were published by I media while she was 
studying in the United States. One of those articles focuses on her background, training regimen, and 
experiences in the United States. The other article suggests that it is unusual for a training program to 
secure a copyright. In that second article, the Petitioner asserts that her program compares favorably 
to other methods, but she provides little information about her program, and the record does not include 
any evidence that the Petitioner's training program has actually been implemented in I or 
elsewhere, and has resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner won several national titles in her teenage years, but the record does not show that she 
has sustained that level of performance, and, therefore, acclaim as required by the statute, since 201 7. 
She won, or placed highly, in a number of NAIA events while at but, as noted above, NAIA 
swimming programs represent a fraction of the overall collegiate swimming community. The 
Petitioner has not shown that she was among the highest-ranked college swimmers in the United 
States, or that her times at individual events rivaled those of the highest-ranked college swimmers in 
the nation, across associations. This is a key distinction because the acclaim must be national or 
international, rather than within one particular collegiate association ( or one regional conference 
within that association). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that she meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner must also sustain that acclaim, rather than simply establish a 
career peak at some point in the past. Here, the Petitioner has not shown continued recognition of her 
work indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or which demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24733484 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 2, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mixed martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not explain how the Director erred in any of her findings but instead 
generally stated that the Director "misinterpreted his qualification and arrived at the wrong decision," 
and resubmits several documents it submitted below. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 
1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting 
and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has 
squarely confronted the issue"); see also Urukov v. INS, 55 F.3d 222, 227-28 (7th Cir.1995)(If a 
reviewing tribunal decides that the facts and evaluative judgments prescinding from them have been 
adequately confronted and correctly resolved by a trial judge or hearing officer, then the tribunal is 
free simply to adopt those findings provided the tribunal's order reflects individualized attention to the 
case). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two new letters from Ministry of Education and Sciences of Ukraine 
Committee of Physical Education and Sports ]office (MES). The Petitioner submits 
the first letter as evidence toward satisfaction of the criterion regarding membership in associations in 
the field for which classification is sought, which requires outstanding achievements of their members, 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The letter confirms 
the Petitioner is a "Master of Sports of Ukraine -World Class" and indicates this is an elite 
membership group and membership is obtained by non-team sports athletes if they reach the final of 
a major international tournament. However, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient evidence outlining the eligibility requirements to obtain this title. Absent from the evidence 
is a showing that MES utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the 
achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding, and an 
indication that this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. It is 
insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient 
evidence, which proves the allegation. 1 
The Petitioner submits the second letter from MES as evidence he "performed in a leading role for his 
country in international tournaments." The letter confirms the Petitioner was the "leading athlete in 
his weight class for All Ukrainian Federation of Free-Fight which is a sanctioning organization for all 
mixed martial arts events in Ukraine." However, it does not sufficiently demonstrate the Petitioner 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation and primarily contains bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions without 
specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those contributions rise 
to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the language of the statute 
or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For the above stated reasons, the petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5764169 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a ballroom dancer and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has participated in ballroom dancing competitions and has coached at dance centers. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). However, for the reasons discussed below, we 
do not concur with the Director's determination regarding the lesser awards criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming to meet two additional criteria. After reviewing all 
of the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As mentioned above, although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we 
disagree. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received the prizes 
or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of prize 
recipients or awardees as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The record reflects that at initial filing, the Petitioner stated in her cover letter that she placed in 14 
international competitions from 2001 -2010 and 17 national competitions in the United States from 
2011 -2014. Although the Petitioner provided copies of certificates and medals relating to her 
international competitions, she did not submit evidence of her placements or awards at national 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
competitions in the United States. Moreover, the Petitioner did not present supporting evidence 
establishing the recognition or significance of her awards at either the international or national 
competitions. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner again claimed her eligibility based on 
her 14 competitions and asserted that "[i]t goes without saying that the competition in Macedonia, 
Bulgaria, Ireland, Moldova, Greece, and Germany were international competitions," and "the I I Cup competitions held within Russia were also international in nature." The issue for this 
criterion is not whether an alien competed in national or international competitions but whether the 
bestowed prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit evidence regarding the stature or recognition of her awards from 
any of her international competitions. 
Regarding her claimed national competitions in the United States, the Petitioner provided 
documentation relating to the National Dance Council of America (NDCA), including background, 
rules and regulations, and monthly competitions. Again, the Petitioner did not present documentation 
evidencing her receipt of prizes or awards from national competitions in the United States, as well as 
evidence that she actually competed in the events. Here, the Petitioner did not sufficiently document 
the record to corroborate her placements and finishes. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner claimed that the NDCA "is the only organization of its kind 
in the United States for professional ballroom dancers" and "[ e ]very celebrity dancer who has 
competed in the United States has taken part in NDCA competitions." However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how participating or placing in NDCA competitions automatically establishes receipt 
of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show that every prize or award from an NDCA sanctioned event results in a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish that her unsupported finishes at 17 NDCA competitions represent 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner referenced a letter from her former employer,! l who indicated 
that "[t]he largest U.S. competition is the I I Ball, which is held annually," and "[i]t used to be 
televised on PBS." We note thatl I did not mention the Petitioner competing or receiving 
awards from NDCA competitions, including the I I Ball. Moreover, although the Petitioner 
asserted to have competed at the I I Ball in 2011 and 2012, she did not establish that her claimed 
fourth and fifth place finishes in the 1 0 t division rise to the level of "excellence" consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her evidence fulfills the regulatory requirements, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 The Petitioner contends that her postings of videos on Y ouTube, as well as on similar 
websites, qualify for this criterion. The Petitioner submits screenshots from Y ouTube and search 
results from Google reflecting videos, images, and photographs posted on various websites. In 
addition, she presents a list of 14 video clips posted on Y ouTube, along with a permalink for each one. 
However, the Petitioner did not establish that screenshots of video clips, photographic images, and 
permalinks constitute published material about her relating to her work. Here, the Petitioner did not 
provide transcripts or other evidence detailing or showing the content of the material. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the evidence represents published material about her relating 
to her work in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that Y ouTube qualifies as a major medium. She submits background 
material regarding Y ouTube, including evidence that "Y ouTube is now the world's 2nd biggest search 
engine for more than 1.8 billion people registered on the site to check it daily to watch 5 billion videos." 
Furthermore, YouTube's worldwide active users of 1.5 billion are second only to Facebook's 2 billion 
worldwide users, and Y ouTube is among other top social platforms, such as Instagram, Twitter, 
WhatsApp, and Snapchat. 4 As it relates here, the issue is not whether Y ouTube overall qualifies as a 
major medium but whether the Y ouTube channel posting the videos represents major medium status. 5 
For example, based on YouTube's structure, the popularity of a channel is demonstrated through the 
number of subscribers or followers, and the popularity of a video is shown by the number of views. 
In this case, based on the submitted documentation, the highest number of channel l I 
subscribers ts 10, and the highest number of video I I I views is 2,678. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of these 
figures or show how such data reflects status as a major medium. 6 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude users from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 See screenshots from businessofapps.com. 
5 This same reasoning would also apply to other social platforms. For instance, major medium status would be measured 
based on the number of followers to an individual's Facebook page rather than total number of users to Facebook overall. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant pet1t10ns are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards and published material. 
Although she claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this 
issue. 7 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has participated in ballroom dance competitions and teaches dance students, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13832895 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a boxer and kickboxer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner 's 
subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met 
that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The Petitioner must specify the factual and 
legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked in our initial decision. 
A. AAO Decision 
The Director denied the petition after concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), related to judging the work of others. 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner established that he had received nationally 
recognized awards or prizes in the sport of kickboxing and therefore met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). We withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had submitted sufficient 
evidence to satisfy the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We also addressed the 
Petitioner's claim that he met three additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including the 
criteria related to memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published 
material in major media, and original contributions of major significance. We concluded that because 
the Petitioner satisfied only one criterion, he did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we misapplied the law, misinterpreted certain evidence, and 
incorrectly determined that the previously submitted evidence was insufficient to satisfy the criteria 
2 
relating to the membership, published materials and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii) 
and (v). He does not contest our conclusion that he did not submit evidence to satisfy the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). However, he requests that we reconsider the 
previously submitted letters of reference from experts in his field as comparable evidence under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4).1 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on his receipt of the 
designation "Master of Sport in WTKA Kickboxing."3 In our appellate decision acknowledged that 
the Petitioner submitted a certificate documenting his receipt of this title and a letter froml I I pf the I I World Traditional Kickboxing Association (WTKA). We noted that, 
whilel I described the achievements required for receipt of the designation, he "consistently 
refers to it as a title rather than a membership." We further emphasized that I I did not 
mention an association into which the Petitioner was granted entry as a result of being conferred this 
title. 
The Petitioner asserts that we erred in determining that his Master of Sports designation "is not an 
association that requires outstanding achievement," noting that our decision "appears to concentrate 
on the semantic meaning of the word 'association' and its alleged opposition to the designation of 
'title," which admittedly is used throughout the translation of the corroborating letter ofl I" 
The Petitioner contends that "the AAO misunderstands the plain meaning of the word 'association' as 
used in the statute" and states that ' [ c ]learly the statute does not require that the alien is an actual 
members of a formal 'association' with by-laws, statutes and officers." 
The Petitioner suggests that the meaning of the words "membership" and "association" should both 
be interpreted generously when evaluating whether a given individual is a "member of an association" 
in the field which requires outstanding achievements of its members. He refers to a non-precedent 
decision in which we determined that membership on a national team could satisfy the criterion at 8 
1 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in thd lsports Club. 
the World Traditional Kickboxing Association (WTKA) and the I I National Kickboxing Team. He has not 
pursued these claims on motion. 
3 
e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
users officers in future adjudications. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing 
law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, while we acknowledge that membership on a national team may, depending on the evidence 
presented in an individual case, be sufficient to satisfy this criterion, 4 the Petitioner has not adequately 
explained how his receipt of the "Master of Sport" title is equivalent to admission as a member to a 
national team or any recognized group or organization of athletes in his sport. There is insufficient 
evidence to support a determination that recipients of a "Master of Sport" title are granted membership 
to a group of any type. His claim that the athletes who have earned the "Master of Sport" title form 
"an association of people holding this title" is not corroborated in the record. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we misapplied the law or users 
policy in concluding that he did not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our previous decision, we observed that three of the four published articles submitted in support of 
this criterion reported on the competition results of groups of athletes from thd }region 
of who artici ated in boxin and kickboxin corn etitions. We noted that one of the articles, 
titled ~------------------------~(published by the 
website www.galsports.com), includes multiple introductory and concluding paragraphs describing 
the competition in general, and devotes one sentence each to the Petitioner and eight other athletes, 
describing their results in the competition. Finally, we emphasized that since none of the articles 
provide details about the individual athletes beyond reporting their competition results, the articles 
were not "about" the Petitioner or any other individual athlete. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that our decision mistakenly relied on Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 
F.Supp.2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), in which the court determined that brief mentions of an athlete 
within articles about a team are not articles about the athlete. A review of our decision reflects that 
we did not indicate our reliance on Noroozi, although we acknowledged that the Director had cited to 
this district court case in his decision. Nevertheless, the Petitioner attempts to distinguish the articles 
submitted here from those mentioned in Noroozi, noting that the court emphasized that the articles 
submitted in that matter contained only a "brief mention" of the beneficiary or referenced him only 
"in passing." The Petitioner maintains that he was "afforded his own paragraph" in each of the articles 
but does not explain how a one-sentence paragraph reporting on his competition results supports his 
claim that these articles were "about" him. The submission of results from a sporting event without 
any discussion of the Petitioner and his work is not consistent with the meaning of"published material 
about the alien" pursuant to the plain language of the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 12 (stating that election to a national all-star or Olympic 
team mist serve as comparable evidence for evidence of membership in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). 
4 
We also acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted one article that satisfies the regulatory 
requirement that the article be "about" him and relating to his work in the field. The article focuses 
on his victory in a boxing tournament inl I in 2012, mentions the Petitioner in its title and 
includes two paragraphs in which his coach describes his fight and his prospects as a boxer. However, 
we determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that the article, which 
was posted on the website www.sport.ifua, appeared in a professional publication, major trade 
publication or other major medium. We emphasized that comparative circulation or similar data is 
most relevant to determining whether a particular publication qualifies under this criterion, and that 
the Petitioner did lot provile comparative data showing this website's ranking in relation to similar 
websites based in or focused on sports. We also noted that the evidence he submitted 
indicates that www.sport.ifua is "a regional sporting Internet portal" and "targeted towards a smaller 
readership than media focusing on sports news at the national ... level." 
On motion, the Petitioner "repeats the assertion that the internet copies of articles fall under the 
category of 'other major media' required by the statute." He does not address the specific deficiencies 
we addressed in our decision, explain how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in evaluating the 
article referenced above, or offer any support for his suggestion that any article published on the 
Internet qualifies as "major media." 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that our prior determination with respect 
to this criterion was based on a misapplication of law or USCIS policy. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In our prior decision, we withdrew the Director's determination that the Petitioner had submitted 
evidence to satisfy this criterion. We acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted certificates 
indicating that he was conferred a second category judge rank in WTKA kickboxing in November 
2015 and a first category judging rank in October 2016. While such evidence establishes that the 
Petitioner has been qualified to serve as a judge in this sport, it does not confirm or corroborate his 
participation as a judge in any specific WTKA event. 
The Petitioner also submitted the above-referenced letter from I I who discusses in detail 
the role of a judge in WTKA kickboxing matches and the different judging ranks or categories. 
However, we noted that certain statements he made regarding the Petitioner were not consistent with 
other information in the record. Specifically, he states that: (1) the Petitioner received his "first 
category" judging qualification in December 2017, more than a year after the date on his certificate; 
and (2) the Petitioner judged WTKA competitions beginning in 2012, three or more years prior to the 
issuance of his second category judging certification. Based on these unresolved inconsistencies and 
a lack of independent, objective evidence related to the Petitioner's judging activities, we found□ I 1 , Is letter insufficient to document the Petitioner's participation as a judge in WTKA 
competitions. 
On motion, the Petitioner acknowledges our de nova review of matters before us on appeal but asserts 
that "the decision to revoke a prior determination of the Director without allowing the Petitioner to 
respond to the alleged inconsistencies is patently inequitable." He argues that he "would have been 
5 
able to present additional evidence or explanation to rebut the alleged inconsistencies" if he had the 
opportunity. He farther contends that we erred by citing to Matter of Ho, I&N Dec. 582 (BIA 1988) 
in addressing the inconsistencies in the record, noting that "the holding of Matter of Ho with regard to 
inconsistencies and contradictions applies to situations where the prior record clearly indicates such 
problems and the Respondent is given opportunity to clarify them." With respect to the inconsistencies 
discussed in our decision, the Petitioner states: 
That the Petitioner began judging kickboxing competitions in 2012 but only received 
his judging certificate in 2015 can be explained simply and sufficiently be the fact that 
not all competitions reqtre judges to hold judge certificates. The erroneous date 
provided in the letter can be attributed to simple clerical error, however, 
without input from the letter writer ... the precise reason for this discrepancy remains 
unknown.'' 
The Petitioner maintains that the discrepancies we noted were minor, that he presented primary 
evidence of his qualifications as a judge, and that I I's letter is sufficient to establish "that 
the Petitioner did indeed participate as a WTKA kickboxingjudge and was not merely granted judging 
certificate." In the alternative, he requests that we remand this matter to the Director for issuance of 
a request for evidence would allow him to address this criterion and the inconsistencies addressed in 
our decision. 
As acknowledged by the Petitioner, we exercise de nova review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and 
discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means that we look at the 
record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. Furthermore, an 
application or petition that does not comply with the technical requirements of the law may be denied 
by the AAO even if the Service Center does not identify all of the grounds for denial in the initial 
decision. See Spencer Enterprises, Inc. v. United States, 229 F. Supp. 2d 1025, 1043 (E.D. Cal. 2001), 
affld, 345 F.3d 683 (9th Cir. 2003). The Petitioner has not established that we misapplied the law or 
any USCIS policy by withdrawing the Director's determination that he had met the judging criterion. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's new claim that "not all competitions require judges to hold 
judge certificates" this unsupported statement does not adequately resolve the apparent inconsistencies 
inl F's letter. Further, we note that, in addition to the inconsistencies discussed in our 
decision, we determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, in part, due to a lack of other 
independent, objective evidence of his participation in any WTKA kickboxing or other events in his 
field of expertise. 
In response to the Petitioner's request that we remand this matter for issuance of a request for evidence 
so that he can supplement the record, we emphasize that a petitioner filing a motion to reconsider 
must establish that our decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our 
initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The Petitioner cannot meet this burden by requesting an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our determination with respect to this 
criterion was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, or that our decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. 
6 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's new claim that that "some of the enumerated categories do 
not readily apply to extraordinary ability in the field of boxing and kickboxing" and his request that 
we reconsider previously submitted testimonial evidence as "comparable evidence" under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The record reflects that the Petitioner did not previously claim 
that USCIS should consider comparable evidence in this matter and he does not argue that we 
overlooked such a claim in our prior decision. As he alleges no error or incorrect application of law 
or policy in our prior decision in this regard, his new comparable evidence claim does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Nevertheless, we note that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if 
the listed criteria do not readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. 5 A petitioner should explain why 
he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 6 Here, the Petitioner initially claimed to meet at least five of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily 
apply to an occupation are not probative. Similarly, claims that USCIS should accept witness letters 
as comparable evidence are not persuasive. 7 The fact that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that 
satisfies at least three criteria does not mean that it is impossible for a kickboxing or boxing athlete to 
do so. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904102 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to 
the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner works in the film and television industry as a director of 
photography. He is the founder ofl I a Florida-based production company. 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet six of these criteria, and the Director determined that he met four of them. Specifically, the 
Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to memberships in associations that 
require outstanding achievements, published materials in major media, judging the work of others in 
his field, and display of his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
(iii), (vi) and (vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he meets the criteria 
related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and leading or critical roles with 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. I 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ce11ain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision reflects that he did not consider all the 
evidence together in its totality in determining whether he is eligible for the benefit sought. We agree 
with that assertion as the final merits analysis section of the decision is limited to two very brief 
paragraphs and contains few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director 
determined that the Petitioner satisfied the membership, published material and judging criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (vi), no evidence related to these three criteria is mentioned or 
weighed in the final merits discussion or elsewhere in the decision. He simply observes that the criteria 
have been met. In weighing the evidence submitted in support of the display criterion, the Director 
refers to the Petitioner's submission of "copies of festival passes," but does not reference other relevant 
evidence in the record pertaining to the display of the Petitioner's work. 
In addition to not fully weighing the evidence submitted in support of these four criteria, the Director's 
final merits discussion disregarded evidence that the Petitioner had provided in support of two 
additional criteria, as well as evidence he had submitted in support of his claim that he enjoys sustained 
national and international acclaim as a cinematographer/director of photography. Such evidence 
included multiple expert opinion letters and media coverage related to awards he received. Because 
the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not 
sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he is an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10894857 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art director and photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability.1 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her degree in photography from I I College of Art and Design and 
currently serves as an art director and photographer working on various projects in the United States 
on her 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to prizes or awards and the display of 
the alien's work, but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with published material, judging, 
leading or critical role, and high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she 
meets each of the criteria in which the Director found in the negative. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the awards and 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
display criteria. Additionally, we conclude that she has also satisfied the judging as well as the 
published material requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided several articles about her and relating to her work. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, the record supports the 
Petitioner's eligibility claims related to this requirement because she provided aO2018 article from 
InStyle Magazine discussing her and her work in the field. The record also contains circulation 
statistics from Comscore demonstrating this publication, during the time frame the Petitioner's article 
appeared in the magazine, qualifies as major media. The Director appears to have mistaken these 
publication statistics to have originated from InStyle Magazine itself As a result, the Petitioner has 
satisfied this criterion's requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director indicated that some of the material lacked complete translations and discussed various 
shortcomings with the quality of her judging experience. However, we note that the Petitioner 
provided emails that did not require any translation that indicated she had judged three competitions, 
as well as one publication listing her as one of the jury of judges. This sufficiently demonstrates that 
the Petitioner satisfied the basic elements of this criterion's requirements. 
Our above analysis comprises all the criteria that the Petitioner satisfied within part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As she has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is 
unnecessary that we discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. 5 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
5 See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
3 
The Petitioner is an art director and photographer based inl~-----~ She attained her Master of 
Fine Arts in photography and has worked as a photographer and a writer. Her career began as a 
freelance photographer and she published her first photo book in 2016. As indicated above, the 
Petitioner garnered awards, received press coverage, judged others, and displayed her work. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements rise to a level 
of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 6 
The Petitioner provided evidence of three awards that satisfied the prizes or awards criterion. Those 
included a 2018 gold prize at the com etition. The Petitioner achieved this 
accolade while competing against other professionals in the cate ory. She also earned a 
third-place finish in the 2013 version of this competition as a~----~ The Petitioner did not 
show the prestige or level of 1ecognit{on that this competition enjoys. The Petitioner also made a notable 
third-place finish at the 2015 Photography Awards, and she finished in second place at the 2015 I I Awards. The only material relating to the prestige of these competitions were from a regional 
version of GQ Magazine in Taiwan, self-promotional claims made within documentation from the 
competition itself: or from one lesser-known website, photocompetitions.com. 7 The Petitioner also 
received several honorable mentions at other various photography competitions. It is not apparent that 
the Petitioner has demonstrated sustained acclaim at the requisite national or international level. She has 
not shown that her achievements received significant attention and as a result, has not demonstrated her 
prizes and awards are commensurate with those among the top of her field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered material from several organizations relating to her 
and her work. Although two notable articles covered her and discussed her work, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international 
acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. 8 Much of the remaining material was from 
local media stations without demonstrating the significance of the program or the radio or television 
station. 9 She also provided work from other regional media with similar shortcomings. Further, the 
Petitioner did not offer material from entities serving similar localities or a similar intended audience 
for us to compare to her localized media coverage, which is required by USCIS policy.10 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22. 2010) (Policy Memo). https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
6H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19.1990). 
7 Even though the Petitioner did not present this evidence for consideration under the prizes or awards category, we observe 
that she provided the circulation statistics for GQ Taiwan for 2019. We reiterate that the article discussing her! I 
Photography Award was published in 2015. The Petitioner has not demonstrated this publication's circulation statistics 
from 2019 should apply to the article discussing her 2015 in an attempt to demonstrate national or international recognition 
relating to the competition's prestige or to her award's recognition. 
8 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
9 Although the Petitioner claimed she was featured in an interview that appeared on! !{the mobile application 
and news aggregator developed byl ~' the record did not support this claim as she only provided pictures with a 
foreign langua:e embedded within the picture and an accompanying translation. She did not show that this material 
appeared onl 11 I 
10 Policy Memo at 7 (noting that published material evidence should establish that the circulation is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and should demonstrate the publication's intended audience). 
4 
Additionally, the Petitioner has not shown that audience or viewer figures for a media outlet from 
several years after a piece about her was published should represent that organization's same audience 
from years earlier. 11 Moreover, the Petitioner presented circulation statistics for some parent 
organizations, rather than the entity that actually published material about her without explaining why 
we should recognize the parent's circulation as the subordinate entity's figures.12 Ultimately, she did 
not show how her overall media coverage was indicative of a level of success being among that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 13 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the media reporting on her and her activities reflected a career of acclaimed work in the 
field. 14 
Although we did not agree with the Director as it relates to the Petitioner's judging experience under the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), it does not appear that she has met the high standard of this 
classification in this final merits determination. While the focus of the Director's analysis under the 
individual criterion did not apply at that stage of the adjudication, much of it is applicable here and 
the weaknesses the Director identified appear to establish that the Petitioner's record of judging falls 
short of the expectations associated with this highly restrictive visa classification. We note that much 
of the evidence under this category was in a foreign language and, as the Director noted, it wasn't 
accompanied by translations as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) and the Petitioner 
has not remedied that on appeal. 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner claims that she judged the work of professional-level photographers. 
The record does not bear out what level of candidates the Petitioner judged other than to reflect that 
she judged material from "a selection of international photographers .... " The Petitioner's judging 
experience is a relevant consideration as to whether the evidence is indicative of the Beneficiary's national 
or international acclaim. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. Her experience consists of one competition 
limited to photographers utilizing a certain type of phone camera (i.e., an~--------~ 
smartphone), and two competitions from "a selection of international photographers" at an unspecified 
career level. Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she 
has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in her field, the 
Petitioner has not shown that her judging experience places her among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 15 
As noted above, the Petitioner provided evidence satisfying the display criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As it is expected that a photographer, such as the Petitioner, would show her work at 
exhibitions and other events, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of her work is reflective of 
acclaim consistent with this highly restrictive classification. We will consider the prestige of both the 
venues and the exhibitions in which she participated. Although the Petitioner's work was displayed at a 
11 This applies to following media outlets where the publication or entity published material about the Petitioner several 
years before the circulation statistics she provided: Gacha Magazine; TVBS News; Art Trade Journal; IPPA Apple Dai~v; 
and FLiPERmag.com. 
12 For Global Views Monthly Magazine and Gacha Magazine the Petitioner only provided statistics for the parent entity, 
and not for these two publications. 
13 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
14 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
15 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
5 
few intermediate venues, her showings largely consisted of small and local events. She did not establish 
that these are considered prestigious or popular settings, or that her exhibitions garnered attention in a 
manner consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Further, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that her performances brought praise from critics, drew notable crowds, or raised attendance. 
Without evidence distinguishing the Petitioner's shows from others in her field, she has not shown that 
she "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."16 
Regarding the documentation submitted for the category of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the 
Petitioner presented three organizations, but failed to demonstrate that she: ( 1) performed in a leading or 
critical role for every organization, and (2) that each entity enjoyed a distinguished reputation. Although 
I I has a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner did not show that she performed in a qualifying role 
for this organization as a whole versus for a smaller entity within the company. To illustrate, within the 
initial filing the Petitioner stated that "she was essential to the success of the~ [sic] I I 
campaigns. As a result of her photography for this campaign, the social media page gained hundreds of 
new followers and provided the company with more exposure." 
The Petitioner has not illustrated how playing a part in an advertisement campaign for a line of 
smartphones is impactful on an entire organization that is a multinational computer hardware and 
consumer electronics company. Nor has she substantiated how this accomplishment shows that she has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage who have risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her leading or critical role does 
not have to be for the distinguished organization as a whole. First, this position is contrary to multiple 
federal court decisions on this topic. 17 Additionally, performing in a role for a subordinate entity that 
itself does not enjoy a distinguished reputation falls short of the high standard applicable when 
considering whether the Petitioner is among those at the top of her field of endeavor. 
In addition tol l the Petitioner claims the role she performed for I I. This entity began 
as an art gallery in 2010 and expanded into design furniture specializing inl !design. The 
correspondence from this organization primarily discussed how the Petitioner performed in important 
roles for the business but does not demonstrate that the organization has a distinguished reputation. The 
Petitioner only offered articles that discussed her work being displayed at this organization, but none that 
establish this entity is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 18 Performing in a leading or critical 
role for an organization that does not itself have a distinguished reputation does not substantiate her 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
Similarly, the Petitioner offered letters froml I a cosmetic company started in 2015. The 
letters from this entity also do not establish that this organization is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. The correspondence from I the company's founder, repeatedly mentions their great 
reputation, but did not explain how they attained that reputation since their founding in 2015 other than 
through financial success. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that this organization's unsubstantiated 
level of financial success should be considered to have earned it a distinguish reputation. The 
16 See 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(2). 
17 Evidence relating to this requirement must provide specifics relating to how the Petitioner's role was critical to the 
organization as a whole. Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. 
May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535,545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
18 Policy Memo, supra at 10--11. 
6 
documentation the Petitioner submitted does not indicate that she is one of that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of her field. 
Finally, we tum to whether the record reflects the Petitioner has earned a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration consistent with this restrictive visa classification. First, we note the Petitioner provided 
compensation figures for two currencies; U.S. dollars and Taiwan dollars. She only demonstrated that 
she earned compensation in the form of Taiwan dollars through her translated Taiwanese income tax 
returns. USCIS policy provides that "[ a ]liens working in different countries should be evaluated based 
on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply converting the salary 
to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States." We 
note that the Petitioner did not offer any material relating to salaries or remuneration for art directors or 
photographers in Taiwan. Consequently, the Petitioner's comparisons to earnings data for the United 
States is not in compliance with agency policy. 
Alternatively, we note a statement within a letter from the Taiwanese company! l that they paid the 
Petitioner 200 U.S. dollars per hour for her work, and this was significantly higher than the average hourly 
wage for the Art Directors profile found in the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, 
Occupational Outlook Handbook. The Petitioner has not shown that this one instance of hourly earnings 
should equate to that same wage allocated at an annual rate. We do not extrapolate this one instance of 
eight hours of work (resulting in 50,000 Taiwan dollars on the Petitioner's 2016 income tax returns, or 
approximately $1,621 in U.S. currency) to an equivalent annual salary. And even if we were to make 
such a presumption, one instance of being well-paid for work in the field is not representative of sustained 
acclaim on a national or international level. The Petitioner has not provided information that establishes 
her earnings as reflective "of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 19 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that she has received attention 
from those in her field. However, considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and 
achievements, the level of her national or international acclaim and the extent to which her achievements 
have been recognized in the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, she has not 
submitted extensive documentation exhibiting she has attained a level of expertise placing her among that 
small percentage that has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
19 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10891868 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an industrial engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence.2 We review the questions in this matter de novo.3 Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
2 Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
3 See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."4 The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his undergraduate degree fromOUniversity in I [. After 
moving to the United Star to pursT his Master of Pine Arts degree.~ " I he 
was accepted to intern at in 2012. Prior to completing his internship, he was offered a 
permanent position with where he continues to work today. He currently holds the 
nonimmigrant status of an individual with an extraordinary ability in the arts. 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to have met six criteria before the Director, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about 
his work and the display of his work, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or 
awards; contributions of major significance; leading or critical role; and high salary or remuneration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets each of the criteria upon which the Director issued 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
an adverse determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner has satisfied the published material and display criteria. Additionally, we conclude 
that he has also satisfied the prizes or awards and the leading or critical role criteria. As the Petitioner 
has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will also evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination farther below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided two achievements in his field and material associated with those accolades. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, 
the record supports the Petitioner's eligibility claims related to this requirement because he showed 
that he was the recipient of two awards, which were nationally recognized prizes for excellence in his 
field. We do not agree with the Director that due to some minor limitations on each competition's 
participants, that these achievements did not constitute a prize or an award under the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. As a result, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets this 
criterion's mandatory elements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner claims he has submitted evidence of significant contributions to the field of industrial 
design. In support of his claims, he identifies several letters from those in his field, patents, and 
lectures he delivered to institutions of higher learning, all of which illustrate how his innovative and 
award-winning designs have impacted the U.S. market in certain areas and his field in general. To 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a 
petitioner may show that his contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
The Director determined that the advisory letters of support from those in the Petitioner's field were 
insufficient to meet this criterion.6 We agree with the Director's determination as the letters do not 
offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating 
documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the Petitioner has made 
to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
there are errors within the Director's statements. In particular, the Petitioner took issue with the 
Director's declaration that letters he solicited are not presumptive evidence of eligibility, and that this 
correspondence cannot form the cornerstone of an extraordinary ability claim. The Petitioner states 
that several letters he submitted were not solicited and that these letters were not the sole evidence 
offered under this criterion. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (Policy Memo) (finding that although funded and published 
work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
We note a common deficiency within each of the letters as they expressed a great respect for the 
Petitioner's work, abilities, and achievements, yet none sufficiently explained how any of his original 
contributions have been of major significance in the field. Nor does the Petitioner make such an 
argument within an of his correspondence throughout these proceedings. We begin with the letter 
from a design research manager currently working a~ I and formerly atl I 
.,...._ _ ____.~w_,here the Petitioner worked withl I through his employer. Even though D 
.__ __ ____. stated that the Petitioner's contributions to certain projects were significant, that he is 
detailed in his work, and that he is a designer capable of delivering outstanding results, she offered no 
discemable contribution he has made to the field of industrial design. Similarly, thel I 
CEO's letter boasts of his abilities and asserts that the Petitioner's capabilities are of vital importance 
to the industry but does not explain how his work has impacted the field. 
Likewise] I the executive director at.___--r---,,-----------------' 
asserted that the Petitioner is among a select class of industrial designers, he possesses 
outstanding talent, the equipment he designed fo ~---~.__ _ ___,, and other achievements reach 
and evocative user interactivity, and that he has already made a tremendous contribution to the design 
community. However,! I did not explain how any of these original contributions were of 
major significance. 
Other advisory letters such as the correspondence fro editor at large for ~I __ __. 
discussed unigue and award-winnin.!?i work such as the Petitioner' .__ _____ ___. design, and the I I designed inl ] but doesn't explain what impact those contributions have had in 
the Petitioner's field.7 Also,~-------~the lead designer atl lnoted that the 
Petitioner designed and implemented many ideas and concepts that would eventually materialize into 
a major manufacturable product that have innovated and redefined the computer market in the United 
States and worldwide. However, he did not identify any such ideas and concepts. I I did 
not explain how the Petitioner has significantly contributed to the field. 
When considered collectively, the letters the Petitioner presented contain uncorroborated assertions 
relating to his impact within the field. Absent are indications of his influence on other industrial 
designers working in the field and suggestions of how the field has been impacted as a result of his 
work. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by 
sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 8 Additionally, we are not required to accept primarily 
conclusory assertions of eligibility.9 The Petitioner must have demonstrably impacted his field in 
order to meet this regulatory criterion.10 
Regarding the lectures he performed at important design-oriented universities, the Petitioner presented 
several letters from those representing the institutions. A common theme among the letters reflected 
how the Petitioner offered information to a small number of students relating to how the actual design 
practice occurs in the business world. Lacking from the record is any indication the Petitioner's 
7 We also note that the Petitioner'd I designs were covered through media outlets, but none appear to have 
detailed how either apparatus significantly contributed to the industrial design field. 
8 Matter of Ho, 22 l&N Dec. 206, 213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
9 Policy Memo at 8-9. 
10 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
4 
lectures or the business processes he shared with the pupils had any reach beyond a small number of 
students. For instance, there is no indication that any of the Petitioner's speeches or information from 
any speech was widely distributed among the field of industrial designers and somehow had an impact 
within the industry such that it rises to the level of a contribution of major significance. Additionally, 
the Petitioner has not explained how providing speeches to future industrial designers made an impact 
within his field sufficient to satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
Turning to patents in which the Petitioner was listed as one of the inventors, while these may 
demonstrate originality, the record lacks an explanation of how any of those patents made any impact 
in the Petitioner's field of industrial design. We have previously stated that a patent is not necessarily 
evidence of a track record of success with some degree of influence over the field as a whole. 11 Rather, 
the significance of the innovation must be determined on a case-by-case basis.12 The Petitioner's U.S. 
patents are assigned to various companies. The record does not demonstrate that the individual 
companies have licensed the inventions and that the accessory has been widely implemented in the 
field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established the impact of any patented devices. 
The Petitioner does not explain how the evidence he submitted demonstrates he is made contributions 
of major significance to his field. That he may have created original work that resulted in some product 
design enhancements falls far short of satisfying the standard here and he has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claims that he performed in a critical role for his employer,! I as well as its 
clientsJ I andl I The Director determined that the Petitioner did not 
comply with the requirements of this criterion. The Director focused on a lack of evidence that he 
performed in a qualifying role for the organizations as a whole, as well as not demonstrating thatl I D is a qualifying organization. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the 
Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather 
than for a subordinate group.13 The Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the 
role was critical for organizations or establishments as a whole. The Petitioner must demonstrate that the 
organizations or establishments have a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that organizations 
or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."14 The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
11 See Strategati, LLCv. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *6 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019). See 
also Matter of New York State Dep't. ofTransp., 22 T&N Dec. 215,221 n.7, (Comm'r 1998) (even though this decision 
was vacated as it relates to adopting a new framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions, the comparative 
analysis relating to patents remains valid and pertinent to this case). 
12 Id. 
13 See Strategati, LLC, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7; Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 
535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). 
14 Policy Memo at 10-11. 
5 
The Petitioner has satisfied the plain language requirements of this criterion through his roles performed 
fo~ I an industrial design company based inl I The Petitioner has worked for this 
organization since 2012 and rose to the creative director and lead designer positions within the company. 
Within that role, the Petitioner has performed high-level work for the compan~ntemational clients 
designing I I task chairs,I I. a c=Jbottle opener, and parts forl_J equipment. While 
the Petitioner did not establish wherd I ranks among its competitors, he did demonstrate that the 
company has received awards such as thre~._ _ ___.pwards, one award from Time Magazine International, 
and another from ID Magazine. This satisfies this criterion's requirements. 
Although the Petitioner may have met the requirements for this criterion based on his em lo er he did 
not demonstrate he performed in a qualifying role for eithetj I or L_ _ _,-____ ___.__._A=s:......:.;it 
relates tnl Jori ~' the Petitioner prov' ers from I I described several of the Petitioner's designs tha has incor._p_o_ra_t_e_d-in_t_o_c_e_rt_a_.in 
lines of its smaller I f equipment. However,.__ ____ __. holds the title of "Product 
Engineer/Industrial Designer" and it is not apparent that he holds the authority within the~I ---~ 
organization to make statements relating to the extent that the Petitioner's role was influential for the 
entirety of that company's success or maintenance of their position within their industry. For instance, 
he is not a senior designer within the organization, nor the head of a major department. For evidence that 
weighs so heavily upon eligibility, it should originate from an authorized individual within the company. 
We further note that the record lacks probative evidence to corroborate I I's statements as 
they relate to the critical role the Petitioner performed for this multinational conglomerate. Therefore, the 
material relating td I carries diminished evidentiary value in these proceedings. 
Regarding! l as their manager of technology and design,! I penned a 
letter in which he claimed the Petitioner led the design and development of the firstl I in 
I I's history specifically designed for infants and toddlers between the ares of zero and two years 
old. We note the record does not contain evidence to corroborate this assertion._ I also claimed 
that thisl !"further created a life-long trustworthiness to the company amongst our customers." 
Documentary evidence of this level of brand loyalty was not submitted to support! ts assertion. 
Such statements made without supporting documentation are of limited probative value and are 
insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof. 15 Although! I described the Petitioner's 
role in designing this and other items for the company, and offered current and projected sales figures, he 
did not demonstrate how those figures impacted the.__ ______ _. organization as a whole. 
Ultimately, the Petitioner did not "establish that [he] has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities."16 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion based on his role atl l he has not shown that his role was qualifying for the other 
claimed organizations. 
15 MatterofSoffici. 22 l&NDec. 158. 165 (Comm'r 1998). 
16 Policy Memo at 10. 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner provided several Internal Revenue Service (IRS) documents, Form 1099-MISC, 
Miscellaneous Income for the tax year 2018 and wage data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 
Linkedin, and coroflot.com. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. 
The Petitioner does not identify any particular error on the Director's part other than to disagree with 
his decision under this criterion. A review of the Petitioner's 2018 IRS Forms 1099-MISC reflected 
he earned wages froml I ($71,559.36); I t$7,330); I I I I ($1,610);1 ($8,820); andl I 
($1,340). The Petitioner's total earnings from the material in the record for 2018 was approximately 
$90,660. However, the Petitioner only submitted a letter froml I to demonstrate what type of 
work he performed in return for the compensation listed on the IRS forms. As a result, the Petitioner 
has only demonstrated that he earned roughly $71,560 for his work in the industrial design field. 
Demonstrating the type of work he performed for the compensation is required as he must demonstrate 
that he "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation 
to others in the field."17 It is unclear how compensation the Petitioner receives, that is unrelated to his 
field of endeavor, should factor into our analysis under this criterion. 
Additionall , comparing his earnings to the mean or median salaries for those performing similar work 
in the area does not demonstrate his salary was high. This is especially the case when his 
earnings fro ~--~($71,560) were approximately $3,000 less than the mean salary in his area of 
the country according to the BLS data assigned to the standard occupational code 27-1021 Commercial 
and Industrial Designers. Moreover, average salary statistics do not provide a proper basis in which 
to compare to the Petitioner's figures, as he must show compensation "in relation to others in the field" 
performing similar work. 18 The record is void of objective earnings data showing that the Petitioner 
has earned a "high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing 
similar work during the same time period. 19 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his evidence satisfies the minimum number of eligibility 
criteria and we will perform a final merits determination considering all of his claims and 
achievements collectively. 
17 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
18 Strategati, LLC, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (in which the court agreed that average salary 
levels do not allow for an appropriate basis for comparison in determining a high salary "in relation to others in the field"). 
19 See Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 
F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
7 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 20 In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
Over a six-year period before he filed this petition, the Petitioner has built a career in his field and has 
gained recognition. He won a prominent industrial design award, has designed products for 
well-known companies, and his work has been recognized in national publications. 
Although we did not agree with the Director as it relates to the Petitioner's prizes or awards under the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we conclude that the Petitioner has not met the high standard of 
this cate or in this final merits determination. His awards consisted of the "established" category for 
the 2016L_ ______ --;---;Design Competition and the 20111 !challenge Design 
award. As it relates to the 201 .__ _ __,award, the only requirement was for the competitor's business 
or professional career to consist of three years of experience and it required an entry fee. This award 
received national-level attention on a Canadian news website. The 2011 I I Challenge Design 
award recognized the Petitioner's efforts in this design competition at the I I 
International Auto Show, and his receipt of this award received national-level attention inl I 
publications. Despite these achievements occurring at a notable level, these awards are not sufficiently 
representative of sustained acclaim nor are so few accolades indicative of the very high standard to 
present more extensive documentation. 21 
Published material covering the Petitioner and his work first appeared in 2016 in a national-level 
publication in Canada relating to one of his awards. In the subsequent years through 2019, other 
national media have focused on three of the Petitioner's other designs. Although he has garnered some 
media attention relating to his life stof, suc1 as the interview with a publication froml I the 
bulk of the material related to his 2016 award and jewelry he designed. However, the Petitioner 
did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success and being among that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 22 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflected a "career of acclaimed 
work" in the field or the high standard to present extensive documentation. 23 
As we detailed above, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence demonstrating that he satisfied 
the original contributions of major significance requirements. The advisory letters commented on his 
20 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
Policy Memo at 4 (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in 
its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of 
expe1iise of the immigrant classification). 
21 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). 
22 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
23 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). 
8 
work without showing how that work represented an individual whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. While the Petitioner has shown that he has 
created original work, the simple aspect that this work was "original"-in that it did not merely duplicate 
prior designs-is not useful in setting him apart through a "career of acclaimed work." The level at which 
the Petitioner's contributions have impacted his field, as a whole, is a predominant factor as to whether 
he is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and has sustained 
national or international acclaim at such an elevated level. 
The Petitioner met the minimum regulatory requirements under the leading or critical role criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on one organization; however, his arguments fell short of illustrating 
such a qualifying role under two other companies. Although the Petitioner claimed his contributions 
as a designer to these organizations have resulted in patents and significant increases in sales, he did 
not produce probative evidence to corroborate this claim relating to sales, and also did not show what 
level of impact those sales had on the respective organizations. The documentation submitted by the 
Petitioner is not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise 
indicating that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner's demonstrated earnings within his relative field were below average, which falls far short 
of illustrating that he enjoys the status as one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
their field of endeavor. Even if his compensation would have been at a much higher level, the Petitioner 
only provided earnings data for a single year and this would not be illustrative of the requisite acclaim at 
a sustained level. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. 24 The Petitioner's evidence confirms that during his six years of 
professional work, he has not yet assembled achievements at a level which would qualify him for this 
classification, but instead he appears to be well within the beginning stages of such an acclaimed 
career. Considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his national 
or international acclaim and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field are 
not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. Also, he has not submitted extensive documentation 
exhibiting he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The 
Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
24 Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19956575 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 3, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial specialist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth arrmlti-partanalysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner works at I as a senior manager. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner only fulfilled one criterion, leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for six 
additional criteria, including through the submission of comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4 ). After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought.1 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his participation on industry roundtables. The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence 
showing his service on various round tables, such as the I I Round table in 2019. In 
addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I I who indicated that the Petitioner "has also 
seen him be recruited to sit on various industry round tables," and a letter from I lwho stated 
that "[i]nvitation to such industry leading roundtables is by invitation only and is reserved for top 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanuaI/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an 
example ofadmission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associatethatrequires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based uponrecognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
executives and renowned experts in the field of and "[t]he top 20 representatives from 
the 20 top largest banks attend these roundtables." 
The Petitioner did not establish that any of the round tables require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner did not offer the specific membership or invitation requirements for any 
of the round tables to show that they require outstanding achievements and that membership is judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Instead, he submitted a letter from I who made 
broad assertions about all roundtables in general without providing specific information for each of 
the round tables in which the Petitioner participated. In addition, although I I claimed that 
roundtables are "reserved for top executives and renowned experts in the field,' I did not 
elaborate and conoborate those claims, nor did he demonstrate how being a top executive and 
renowned expe1i equates to outstanding achievements. Fmihennore, the Petitioner did not claim and 
establish that recognized national or international experts judge the roundtable candidates for 
membership. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization.2 The Petitioner claims that his "recruitment 
constitutes [the] Petitioner's meeting a simple criterion regarding being a judge of his peers as [the] 
Petitioner accepted the task of hiring an individual with nearly double his own quantitative experience 
and then proceeded to lobby to secure an above-entry-level salary for this individual." The record 
contains a letter froml I who stated that the Petitioner "voluntarily assumed the role 
of recruiter for several key positions within his department" and "has reviewed more than one hundred 
prescreened (by Human Resources Department) to isolate and bring in these recruits." 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner did not establish how recruiting 
individuals to fill vacancy positions is tantamount to participating as a judge of the work of others. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his designation "as a judge," nor did he show that he 
actually judged the work of others in the same or similar field of specialization. In addition, the 
evidence in the form of a letter from I I does not contain specific information detailing whom, 
when, and what work he judged. Without probative documentation, his evidence regarding his 
recruitment and hiring is inadequate to satisfy this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
2 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarzv, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts: 
[He] is confirmed by CFOs and Treasurers a this current employer and likewise at other 
global institutions to have made major contributions to the industry. These 
contributions include his I rubric, his best practices, his 
participation in annual industry roundtables, [and] his contribution to wording of 
regulations whose wording was adopted in toto into the existing regulations since the 
onset of the pandemic. 
In support of his claims, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that generally praise his work 
for his employers but do not show that he has made contributions of major significance in the field. 
For instance,I !discussed the Petitioner's.__ ___________ and credited the 
Petitioner "with mobilizing the bank's I I personnel long before the government and countless 
other banks had at the beginning of the pandemic" and his "algorithm allowed0 to thrive during 
COVID 19 by becoming a leadin East Coast lender in Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans to 
small business." Similarly stated that the Petitioner "was recruited specifically to 
head his own risk assessment team at Bank to perform the same task that he had masterfully 
performed for both an ' Likewise[ indicated that the Petitioner 
"was s ecificall chosen over all other members of the I team experts -including myself 
-at to analyze and provide counsel to mitigate! !deficiencies in the 
existing system." The letters, however, do not show the influence of the Petitioner's work 
beyond Bank or former employers to reflect original contributions of major significance in the 
overall field. 4 Here, the Petitioner's contributions to his employers are more applicable to the leading 
or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied. 
Moreover,! lstated that "the Service may be interested in knowing that on May 21, 2021 
Federal Reserve Board ("Fed") directly contacted. , , in a conference call to congratulateLJ Bank for 
our being best in class and issued its top rating for management" and "informed us our 
best practices are being shared with other Banks across the industry as the new standard for Best 
Practices." However, the Petitioner filed the petition in November 2020. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing 
and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1). In addition, I did not further 
elaborate and explain the "best practices" in which he was referring to in his letter. Further, the 
3 See 6 USC IS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2(8)(2) (providing that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact a lone is not sufficientto establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaiav. Beers,4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a who le). 
4 
Petitioner did not provide evidence from the Federal Reserve Board showing that it "shared with other 
Banks across the industry as the new standard for Best Practices." 
In addition, as discussed previously, I stated that the Petitioner "has also seen him be recruited 
to sit on various industry round tables." I !however, did not further elaborate and explain the 
significance of the Petitioner's participation or service on the various industry roundtables. Moreover, 
I I did not indicate, for example, whether any of the Petitioner's roundtable discussions resulted 
in any majorly significant contributions in the overall field rather than limited to the roundtables. 
Further, I _ indicated that the Petitioner's "suggestions on implementation of I I I rule is trusted and has frequently been adopted in toto by the Fed." ( emphasis in 
original). Again, I did not expound on his claims. He did not identify the Petitioner's specific 
suggestions, nor did the Petitioner reference any supp01iing evidence showing that those suggestions 
have been implemented in the rule, let alone resulted in original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
an individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires his "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media."7 As defined in the academic arena, 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 8 For other 
fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include 
all persons having profound knowledge of a field. 9 The Petitioner asserts to meet this criterion based 
on "the publication of an annual report relied on by professionals in both this nation's government and 
by investors both individual and institutional, for asset allocation and compliance issues." 
5 Sec 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
6 Id. Sec also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatmy 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
origina I contributions of majorsignificancein the field). 
7 See 6 USCIS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
5 
The Petitioner initiall submitted three business documents authored b him on behalf of I Bank: 
' and' 
' In res onse to the Director's RFE, he provided an 
email from him directing the posting of the on website.10 
While the documents appear to be written for learned persons and thus qualify as scholarly articles, 11 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the papers were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 12 The Petitioner did not show where or if the I 
I I documents were published, let alone published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. As it relates to the liquidity disclosure document, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence establishing that website qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Simply posting a document on a company's website, as well as 
authoring material without publication or posting, is insufficient to meet this criterion without 
evidence showing the website's standing or status as a major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 13 The Petitioner initially provided 
evidence of his annual salary of $152,000, including other forms of compensation including one time 
awards, bonuses, and health and wellness incentives. In addition, the Petitioner submitted comparative 
average salary data from a range of salary sources, such as $126,000 (unidentified source), $118,000 
(PayScale with $161,000 in the 90th percentile), and $109,000 (Zip Recruiter with $177,000 classified 
as high). In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner included a letter froml I who 
claimed that the Petitioner "would easily command a BASE SALARY of $250,000 per annum." 
Further, he presented comparative average salary fromZipRecruiter ($85,000 with a $135,000 in the 
95th percentile) and Salary.com ($99,000 with $131,000 in the 90th percentile). 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he commanded a salary above the average of others in his field; 
however, his salary falls short of earning a high one. Again, the Petitioner presented data containing 
a range of salary figures, as low as $85,000 to as high as $177,000. In fact, the record also contains 
salaries from sample companies, such as PayPal ($177,000), E*Trade Financial ($155,000), MPG 
Operations ($169,000), and CLS Group ($162,000), indicating higher salaries than the Petitioner. 
While the regulation does not require the Petitioner to show that he earned the highest salary, the 
record does not reflect that he commands a high salary when compared to other senior managers in 
10 The Petitioner also offered evidence of another for the three months ended on 
March 31, 2021. However, eligibility must be established at time of filing. Sec 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
11 The indicated that the audience distribution included: bank executives, 
liquidity risk professionals, credit risk professionals, operational risk professionals, and interest rate risk professionals. 
12 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2(B)(2) (providing that evidence ofprofessionalormajortrade publications or 
in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and the in tended audience). 
13 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
6 
his field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grims on v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Mun iv. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner did not show that the comparison of average and median 
salaries reflects that he commanded a high salary in relation to other senior managers in his field. 
Moreover, while I I asserted the salary the Petitioner ''would easily command," this 
regulatory criterion that the individual "has commanded," reflecting actual salaries rather than 
projected or estimated salaries. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the pe1forming arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion because his "corroborating evidence as to the 
commercial success of [his] clients was documented when they followed his advice, defying the 
industry norm, and spun off a less profitable and regulatorily more burdensome retail unit." In order 
to fulfill this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect 
an individual's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing 
arts. 14 In this case, the Petitioner is not a performing artist, such as a singer or actor. Rather, the 
Petitioner is al lsenior manager at a bank. Thus, the Petitioner does not qualify for this 
criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit evidence of his "commercial successes" in the form 
of "box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The Petitioner claims that he is "allowed to submit comparable evidence as per the regulations at 
204.5(h)(5) is the fact that the regulation does not require a showing that [he] demonstrate that his 
industry or occupation' does not have standards that readily apply."' 15 On the contrary, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), rather than C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), addresses comparable evidence and allows 
for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation.16 A petitioner 
should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set 
14 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
15 The Petitioner also claims eligibility under the "Mentor" criterion. However, the regulation at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) does not contain a criterion specifically addressing mentors. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner made 
similar assertions pertaining to satisfying criteria regarding"[s]ervingas a mentoroutside the scope ofhis normal course 
ofbusiness" and "[r]eputation in the field of endeavor." Ifhe wanted to make these claims under any of the ten criteria, 
the Petitioner did not articulate his intentions andidentifythe appropriate criteria. 
16 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
7 
forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that 
required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).17 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. The 
fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that satisfies at least three or could not establish 
eligibility is not evidence that a !senior manager could not do so. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the criteria do not apply to his occupation. Fmihem1ore, the Petitioner did not show 
why the other criteria not claimed, such as the awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), would not be applicable to al I senior manager 
or other financial position. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish why his evidence should then 
be considered as comparable evidence under the same criteria that he claimed to meet. In addition, 
the Petitioner did not show how his evidence is "truly comparable" to the criteria listed in the 
regulation. 18 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he qualifies for additional criteria through 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not supp01i a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,");Hamalv. Dep 'tofHomeland Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c ]omis have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one 
of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
17Id. 
18 See6 USCJSPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
8 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has served in a leading or critical 
role, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon 
in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24568537 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 03, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, it 
did not establish that the Petitioner enjoys sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the 
small percentage at the top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). In the alternative, they must provide evidence that meets at least three of the ten listed criteria, 
which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, published material about them in 
qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among other types of evidence. 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that they possess 
the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa classification. See 
Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a post-doctoral researcher at the University of I I where she works in the field of biomolecular 
computational modeling. She earned a Ph.D. in strnctural and computational biology and molecular 
biophysics froml !University in 2015, and has worked in her current position since. She intends 
to continue conducting research in her field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles, her service as 
a judge of the work of others, and her role for an organization having a distinguished reputation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material 
about her and her original scientific contributions of major significance. In addition, she also asserts 
that the Director erred in not considering the entirety of the record in the final merits determination. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). But we disagree with the Director regarding the criterion at 
subsections (v) and (viii) per the analysis below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Under this criterion, an individual must show that published material was about them and related to 
their work in the field, and did not just focus on their employer or another organization. Marketing 
2 
materials intended to sell an individual's products or promote their services will generally not qualify. 
In addition, an individual must show that the publication in which this material appeared was one of 
the qualifying types through evidence comparing its circulation or viewership to other publications 
and/or evidence regarding its intended audience.1 
Two sets of evidence were submitted in support of this criterion. The first was a commentary article 
published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (PNAS) that focused on an article 
authored by the Petitioner and her collaborators in the previous issue of the same journal. While we 
agree with the Petitioner that this article is about her work, she is only referred to in this article as the 
lead author ([Petitioner] et. al.). As there is no further information regarding the Petitioner (such as 
her educational background, career, or other research projects), it is not about her, and the article does 
not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
The second set of evidence consists of a press release on the website of the _____ 
, as well as evidence of the reposting of this press release on other websites. 
The press release discusses the K-lab's research on the structure of a protein linked to skin cancer, 
and includes several quotations from the Petitioner regarding her use of a supercomputer at I I to 
conduct simulations. As this article includes details about the Petitioner's background and her 
thoughts concerning future research, it is about her and her work as a researcher. However, we note 
that press releases in general are intended to promote the activities of the organizations that release 
them, and are thus marketing materials. Here, I I press release informs readers about the 
application of its supercomputer and systems to conduct research related to a serious health issue, thus 
promoting its services. In addition, the reposting of press releases by other organizations without 
substantial edits or substantive comment does not constitute additional published material but simply 
the distribution of the original. Finally, the record is insufficient to establish thatl I website is 
a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. We therefore conclude that this 
material also does not qualify under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Director focused primarily on citations to the Petitioner's published work when evaluating the 
evidence submitted under this criterion, concluding that the number of citations to her most cited 
papers was not indicative of contributions of major significance, particularly when compared to the 
citation record of other researchers in the Petitioner's field. On appeal, the Petitioner stresses that 
other types of evidence, including journal impact factors, other metrics, and reference letters, show 
that that she has made contributions of major significance. For example, the Petitioner refers to the 
commentary article in PNAS that was previously discussed, as well as a letter from PNAS stating that 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
such articles are intended to highlight "noteworthy" articles, recommended by a board member, and 
focus on approximately 5% of articles published in the journal. The prestige of PNAS as shown by 
its high ranking and journal impact factor, the selective nature of commentary articles, and the 
statement in the commentary that the research findings described in this paper "have some significant 
implications" indicate that this work is considered influential in the Petitioner's field. Also, Dr. J-C-
of the _____________ who collaborated with the Petitioner on the research 
published in PNAS, writes in her reference letter that the Petitioner's work was essential to the success 
of this study, and that it laid the groundwork for the development of therapies which could prevent the 
spread of breast cancer. 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that the significance and influence of her most-cited paper, 
published in Elife in 2016, is also supported by metrics from the National Institute of Health's (NIH) 
iCite tool. The record includes a report from iCite which indicates that that paper has a relative citation 
ratio (RCR), a metric that takes into account an article's field and date of publication, which ranks in 
the 90th percentile amongst NIH-funded research papers. Dr. D-S-of the University ofl lat 
states that this study, together with the Petitioner's other published work on the 
structure and function of proteins in the MAPK cell signaling pathway, is a major contribution to the 
understanding of how they function and how to develop therapies for when they malfunction. 
Additional reference letters also support the significance of this work, such as Dr. W-C-of I I 
University, who writes that the Petitioner "has distinguished herself through her invaluable studies on 
specific proteins implicated in the MAPK/ERK pathway," which he explains is tied to multiple forms 
of cancer. 
The Petitioner has shown that her research in modelling the structure and function of proteins has been 
published in highly-regarded scientific journals, recognized as noteworthy and significant in one of 
those journals, and has been highly cited by other researchers in her field. This evidence establishes 
that she has made original contributions of major significance in her field. We therefore disagree with 
Director and find that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, an individual must establish that their role for an organization was either leading 
or critical, and that the organization or establishment had a distinguished reputation. A leading role 
should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's 
matching duties. A critical role may be evidenced by an individual 's contributions to an organization 
or establishment that are of significant importance to its activities. Evidence of an individual's 
performance in this role should establish whether it was critical for the organization or establishment, 
or for a division or department. 2 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's role as a post-doctoral researcher in the K­
lab at was qualifying under this criterion. But we note that the evidence submitted under this 
criterion consists primarily of two letters submitted by Dr. K-, the first with the initial filing and the 
second in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). Both letters are exceedingly lengthy 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
4 
( 19 and 43 pages, respectively), address each of the regulatory criteria claimed by the Petitioner along 
with evidence presented in the petition, and use regulatory language throughout. This despite Dr. K­
making no claim in either letter regarding expertise in immigration law. In addition, the second letter 
states that "[W]e received an RFE from your office," but neither Dr. K-nor are a party in this 
matter. 
USCIS may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. 
However, where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we 
are not required to accept, or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron International, 
19 T&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm 'r 1988). Here, these concerns, and the fact that parts of these letters 
are exactly repeated in the appeal brief, give rise to significant questions regarding the authorship of 
these letters and whether they reflect the professional opinion of Dr. K-, and we will accordingly give 
them no evidentiary weight. As these letters are the only evidence referenced by the Petitioner in 
support of her role in the K-laboratory, we conclude that the record does not show that she played a 
leading or critical role for that organization or any other within I I 
Further, even if we were to consider these letters, the primary evidence in the record in support of the 
distinguished reputation of Dr. K-' s laboratory consists of pages from the websites of the laboratory 
itself, ______ Because the record does not include sufficient evidence showing that other 
institutions and researchers in the field consider the K-lab to be distinguished, or that it has received 
recognition indicative of its distinction in the field, the Petitioner has not established that it enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. We disagree with the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion and 
withdraw his finding in that respect. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. 
The Director concluded in his decision that the evidence concerning the Petitioner's peer review 
activity, authorship of articles in scientific journals in her field, the number of citations to her published 
work, and role as a post-doctoral researcher in Dr. K-'s lab were insufficient to establish that she 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of her 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not follow USCIS policy and did not 
consider the totality of the evidence in the record when conducting his final merits analysis. We agree. 
Notably, the Director did not consider the materials submitted in support of the third criterion relating 
to published material about the Petitioner, and ignored or glossed over much of the evidence submitted 
in support of the fifth criterion about her original contributions of major significance. On remand, the 
Director should include this evidence in his final merits determination analysis, and should also 
consider the analysis of the three criteria provided above. 
5 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7839684 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 4, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior corporate attorney in his native country, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not established that his occupation "falls within the purview of 'the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics,"' as set forth in section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. The Director subsequently denied the 
Petitioner's combined motions to reconsider and reopen the matter. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director did not properly evaluate his area of expertise, and maintains that his profession is 
within the field of business. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for further action and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is the CEO forl O I a California-based company 
formed by him in 2018 to provide consultancy services to the I O I sector. He is also a consultant 
for the company! I a Dubai-based contractor of shallow-water I I In a 
supporting letter, counsel states that the Petitioner has received recognition "for his extraordinary 
abilities to provide innovation and creative solutions for many complex business issues" such as 
"solutions based on artificial intelligence and machine learning." The Petitioner indicates he intends 
to work as an international I I contracts consultant in the United States. The Director issued 
a request for additional evidence that the Petitioner would continue working in his area of expertise, 
such as letters from current or prospective employers, employment contracts, or a statement detailing 
his plans for continuing work in the United States, to which the Petitioner responded. 
Subsequently, the Director issued a notice of intent to deny the petition, informing the Petitioner that 
he had not established that his profession and intended employment fall "within the purview of 'the 
sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics."' In response, the Petitioner argued that the 
determination as to whether a petitioner demonstrated his extraordinary ability is "premised on the 
degree of ability and showing requisites and not on whether or not [ a petitioner] is affiliated with a 
given profession." He asserted that the Director's determination that someone who is a member of 
the professions is ineligible to qualify for this classification is not supported by a statutory or regulatory 
provision, or statement of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services or Department of Homeland 
Security policy. Finally, the Petitioner provided a statement outlining his career plan in the United 
States. He indicated his intent to "leverage on his legal and contracts skills" in thel I sector 
to "provide artificial intelligence-powered applications to automate legal processes" such as "contract 
review and analytics, legal research, compliance risk assessment, litigation outcome prediction, [ and] 
legal risk assessment." 
In denying the petition, the Director did not provide an analysis of whether the Petitioner had met the 
initial evidentiary requirements or demonstrated his extraordinary ability. Instead, the Director stated: 
2 
Documentation provided indicates that you plan to work as a lawyer (SOC 23-1011) 
and that you have plans to practice law in the State of California, set up a company who 
will work with your law firm to provide artificial intelligence-powered legal 
applications, as well as pursuing a master in computer analytics. Thus, the record is 
clear that the [P]etitioner intends to continue to work as a lawyer in the United States. 
The Director determined that "[t]he practice of law is a profession for purposes of eligibility for the 
EB-2 immigrant visa" and that "[ t ]he practice of a profession is not one of the fields within the EB-1 
category." The Director farther found that "Congress specifically included members of the 
professions in sections 203(b )(2)(A) and 203(b )(3)(A)(ii), and excluded them from section 
203(b)(l)(A)" of the Act. 
On motion and on appeal, the Petitioner argues that his area of expertise and intended employment 
fall within the field of business, noting that he intends to contribute his knowledge of "negotiations of 
complex business transactions inl !including but not limited tol I contracts." 
Further, the Petitioner emphasizes that his work as corporate general counsel has required him to 
oversee corporate management, compliance and regulatory reporting. 
Our review of the record indicates that the Director's decision did not include sufficient analysis of 
whether the Petitioner's area of expertise and intended work in the United States fall within the 
purview of "business" as set forth in section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. Instead, the Director's 
decision reflects that he focused primarily on the SOC code associated with the Petitioner's occupation 
rather than on the evidence in the aggregate. To the extent that the Director indicated that someone 
who is a member of the professions is ineligible to qualify for this classification, we disagree with that 
interpretation. As stated in a 1995 legal opinion paper from the Office of General Counsel within the 
former Immigration and Naturalization Service, an individual "who is of extraordinary ability in 
business or in some other EB-1 endeavor would not be ineligible for EB-1 classification simply 
because the alien is also a lawyer."1 
Regardless, we find that the information and evidence relating to the Petitioner's area of expertise and 
intended employment in the United States is sufficient to demonstrate that his occupation falls within 
the purview of "business" as set forth in section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. In addition, because the 
Director did not render a determination as to whether the Petitioner has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we are remanding for him to also consider whether the Petitioner has 
met his burden of proof with respect to these criteria. Furthermore, if the Director determines that the 
Petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F .3d 1115 ( discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
1 See Genco Op. No. 95-3 (INS), 1995 WL 1796310, entitled "Construction of'sciences' and 'arts' in Section 203(6)(1) 
and (2): Reconsideration of our March 3, 1994, Legal Opinion." We note that General Counsel opinions are advisory in 
nature and are not binding. R.L Inv. Ltd. Partners v. INS, 86 F. Supp. 2d 1014. 1022 (D. Haw. 2000), affd. 273 F.3d 874 
(9th Cir. 2001). 
3 
context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
On remand, the Director may request any additional evidence deemed warranted and should allow the 
Petitioner to submit such evidence in support of his petition within a reasonable period of time. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904736 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 4, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete and instructor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete and instructor in the disciplines ofwushu and tai chi. The record 
reflects that he intends to work as a martial arts instructor in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; and 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the three claimed criteria, relating to judging the 
work of others. The record supports that conclusion, as it contains evidence of the Petitioner's judging 
credentials as well as documentation of his participation as a judge at martial arts events in the United 
States and China. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or mischaracterized certain evidence and 
erroneously determined that he does not meet the criteria relating to nationally or internationally 
recognized awards and membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their 
members. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and therefore, he 
does not satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner submitted more than award 20 certificates that he received in the following martial arts 
competitions: 
• 1995 -I 
I I National Wushu Competition ~I __ ~I Team Competition); 
F-'" ........ u.a...._--,. __ ..---'--"'-'-'-'LI.L.1.1..u,,tition; First~P_la_c_d~-------------~ • 
• 1998 - Province ~I ---~I Wushu Combat Competition; 
• 2004 -The Wushu Championships; First place,,.__ ______ ....,. 
Group D 
• 2005 -National Wushu & Tai Chi Championships; First place.__ _______ ____. 
'~'--------'-""'""" .................................... ...........,~hu Communication Competition; First place~I ___ ~ 
.__ ___ __.International Kung Fu Festival! !Event; (certificate does not 
• 2008 ~ I Traditional Wushu Competition; Second place,'---------~ ident16fy; e award received) 
Grou 
• 2010 -International Tai Chi Communication Contes · First Place[ I I I GroupOand First Place , GroupD 
• 2010 -China International Wushu Communication Conference,__ __ ~; First place in□ 
• 2011 Cup Competition; First place in D 
• 2011 Cu Province First Wushu Competition; First 
place i11---7--~------J(Male, group 
• 2012- tional Wushu Competition; Gold Award, Male I ~ Grou and Mal GrouO ,___~ 
• 2012 { I Sports Competition; First plac~J I 
• 2013 ~ lwushu Competition; First place,I IMale GroutU 
In addition to the award certificates, the Petitioner submitted several recommendation letters, some of 
which include statements about the significance of specific awards he received. For example, a letter 
from,__ _________ ~USA Wushu-Kungfo Federation, Inc. (USA WKF), refers to the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
Petitioner's 1995 'I !Award in National Wushu Championships."2 He states that this 
award "is the highest level martial arts competition in China" and "one of the most prestigious honors 
in the field of martial arts." He also describes the 2010 CHINA International Wushu Communication 
Conference as "one of the most influential Wushu events in the world," and "one of the largest and 
most influential sports events in the world of martial arts." However, his statements about the 
significance of these awards are general and not sufficient to establish that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes in the sport, especially given that the record contains no 
additional background information or evidence related to these two competitions. 
In addition.I lnotes that the Petitioner's first place award in thd I Wushu 
Championships in 2004 "clearly demonstrates that he has reached the highest level in the field of 
martial arts." He indicates that, as a result of this achievement, the Petitioner "became a first Class 
Athlete" a title granted by the National Sports Central Agency of China pursuant to China's "National 
Athlete System." We note that while the record contains a "Certificate ofNational First Class Athlete" 
issued by the General Administration of Sports of China, the certificate was issued in 1983 when the 
Petitioner was nine years old, and states that it was granted on the basis of a first place award in 
"National Wushu Trial" held in October 1982 when he was eight years old. As noted above, the 
Petitioner's evidence submitted in support of this criterion dated back to 1995; he has not documented 
any events in which he competed in the 1980s. The Petitioner must resolve this ambiguity in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). If the Petitioner was in fact granted this "Certificate of National First Class 
Athlete" as a child in 1983, it was not as a result of his first place finish in the 2004 I I I lwushu Championships as stated b~ I 
In addition to the award certificates and recommendation letters, 3 the Petitioner provided background 
information regarding a few of the events in which he competed. This evidence included: a screenshot 
from the website of the Chinese Wushu Association announcing the ~-------~Wushu 
Championships; a screenshot from the website www.samlau-wingchun.com w~icb includes 
photographs from "International Kung Fu Festival," which may refer to the 2008 I 
International Kung Fu Festival I I event; and screenshots from the website of the 
International Combat Association (ICA), which was the organizer or sponsor of the 2010 CHINA 
International Wushu Communication Conference. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence was 
insufficient to establish that the awards he received are nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards in his sport. The Director requested that the Petitioner submit evidence such as national or 
international media coverage of the prizes or awards, information regarding other prize winners, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the number of prizes granted each year, and the geographic 
scope of the competitions. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner re-submitted some of the initial evidence relating to this 
criterion. In his cover letter, he emphasized his first-place award in Men's I I at theLJ 
~ I refers to this 1995 competition as "the National Wushu Cham]ionships" organized by "the National Sports 
Commission." but the award certificate refers to it as 1 _National Wushu Competition," organized by 
"National Sports Competitiod !Division." 
3 While we do not address all of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
I lwushu Championships in 2004 and his title of "National First Class Athlete." The 
Petitioner referenced a letter from I I and quoted him as stating that "[ t ]he.__ _____ ___, 
Wushu Championships is ... reputed and famed as the Olympic Games of Martial Arts." The record 
contains only one letter froml k dated September 7, 2019) and the quoted statement does not 
appear in that letter. 
The Petitioner also emphasizedl ts statement regarding his "First Class Athlete Certificate," 
noting that "the National Athlete system is an officially hierarchical system formulated to evaluate the 
professional level of athlete," with the first class being the highest level. As discussed above, the 
certificate the Petitioner submitted was issued when he was eight or nine years old. There is 
insufficient evidence to corroborate that he was competing as a professional athlete at that age or that 
the certificate itself is a nationally recognized prize for excellence. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence 
to establish that the awards he received are nationally or internationally recognized in his sport. The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted some online media coverage regarding thee=] I I Wushu World Championship and the International Kung Fu Festival, but noted that the 
Petitioner but did not establish that the events received major media coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the media coverage he submitted of these events was 
intended to convey "a better understanding about the background and influence of the competition of 
the event itself:" and not intended to satisfy one of the evidentiary criteria that requires published 
materials in major trade publications or other major media, such as 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or (vi). 
He lists the awards he received between 199 5 and 2013 and asserts that he met his burden to show that 
he received lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes in his field. 
Upon review of the evidence, we observe that while many of the submitted certificates include the 
words "national" or "international" in the title of the competition, the fact that a competition was open 
to athletes from throughout a particular country or countries does not automatically establish that a 
prize or award from that competition is nationally or internationally recognized. The Director placed 
particular emphasis on media coverage as one form of evidence that may establish whether a given 
prize or award enjoys national or international recognition in the field, but we note that other evidence 
may suffice to establish the required level of recognition. Here, however, the background information 
and objective evidence regarding the competitions in which the Petitioner competed was very limited 
and was not sufficient to establish how the prizes he received qualify as nationally or internationally 
recognized awards. Accordingly, we conclude that this criterion has not been met. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in his 
field, and that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 
Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education or 
5 
experience, or payment of dues or fees do not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not 
constitute outstanding achievements. 4 Further, the overall prestige of a given association is not 
determinative; the issue here is membership requirements rather than the association's overall 
reputation. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his membership in seven associations including the Chinese 
Wushu Association (CW A), the China Changan International Taijiquan Association, the Beijing 
Wushu Association, the International Wushu Kung Fu Association, the Wushu Research Institute of 
the Sports General Administration of China, the Asia-Pacific Wushu Association, and the International 
Wushu San Shou Dao Association (IWSD). Although he submitted copies of his membership 
certificates for all seven associations, he provided supporting evidence addressing the membership 
requirements for only two of them -the CW A and the IWSD Association. 
With respect to the CW A, the Petitioner provided: a copy of his membership certificate; a letter from 
CW A .__ ________ __. a screenshot from ChinaCulture.com providing background 
information regarding the CW A; and "Chinese Wushu Association Management Measures" 
describing tr CWA jembership requirements, printed from the CWA's website (wushu.china.cn). 
In his letter~ __ __. identifies the Petitioner as a "senior member" of the CW A and states that 
according to the CWA's Management Measures, "only the people who are 'Chinese Wushu 
Association committee members or winners of martial high spots, or martial arts professional and 
technical personnel with senior titles, or international level or national level martial arts referees' are 
qualified to apply to become a senior member." While this language is repeated in the CWA 
Management Measures, it is unclear how the listed conditions of senior membership equate to 
"outstanding achievements" in the field. The phrases "winners of martial high spots" and 
"professional and technical personnel with senior titles" are not adequately defined. 
In addition, the Petitioner must establish that nationally or internationally recognized experts are 
charged with judging whether a given prospective senior member has outstanding achievements in the 
field. In his letterJ I states that "requests for senior members must be presented directly to the 
CWA and be reviewed by the CWA only," noting that the association "follows a rigorous standard for 
reconsideration; all senior members are highly selected professional martial artists who have 
established significant contributions to the martial arts community and enjoy high reputation." The 
submitted CW A Management Measures reflect that prospective senior members must submit their 
membership enrollment applications directly to the CW A for approval, while ordinary and junior 
members also have the option or submitting their applications "through unit members at all levels" of 
the CW A or directly to the CW A. The CW A Management Measures do not describe the review and 
approval procedures or standards that apply to individual member enrollment applications, nor do they 
identify who within CW A makes final decisions on applications for senior membership. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
6 
With respect to the IWSD Association, the Petitioner submitted his membership certificate issued in 
2016 and a certificate from the association awarding him a 6th Degree Black Belt in 201 7. The 
Petitioner also submitted an overview of the IWSD Association's ranking methodology for black belts 
from its website, but this evidence does not discuss the association's membership requirements, 
indicate whether "outstanding achievements" are a condition of membership, or state whether the 
process for admission of members involves judging by recognized national or international experts. 
The information provided indicates that "[ o ]nly the well-rounded practitioners with exceptional 
knowledge and skills are granted black belt status," but it is unclear whether "membership" and "black 
belt status" are evaluated based on the same criteria. The Petitioner's membership certificate does not 
mention his belt ranking or the type of membership he was granted. A letter from IWSD Association I lstates that the Petitioner "was awarded the 6th Level Black Belt because he 
is an outstanding and prominent practitioner in the martial arts community with remarkable 
contributions to the promotion of martial art around the world." However, he was granted membership 
in IWSD Association prior to achieving this level and the association's specific membership 
requirements and its review processes and procedures have not been documented in the record. 
The Director determined that the evidence the Petitioner submitted at the time of filing and in response 
to the RFE "does not provide any information to establish that the individuals who review prospective 
members' applications are recognized as national or international experts in their disciplines or fields 
and the section of the associations' constitution or bylaws which discuss the qualifications required by 
the review panel of the association." With respect to the CWA, the Director also observed that 
"membership dues are a requirement for membership." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his membership in CWA satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii); he does not address IWSD or the other associations in which he is a member. The 
Petitioner asserts that the Director determined that he did not meet this criterion because the CW A 
requires payment of membership dues and argues that the Director's decision was incorrect. He 
emphasizes that, while all members must pay dues, this is not the only condition for membership as 
implied by the Director's statement. He refers to the previously submitted CWA Management 
Measures in support of his assertion that "[ t ]he CW A requires outstanding achievement in an area of 
martial arts as an essential condition for admission to membership" and states that "only the top 
candidates, at the discretion of the CWA are actually invited and selected for membership." 
While the Petitioner is correct in his assertion that an association that requires payment of membership 
dues may also require outstanding achievements as a condition of membership, he has not met his 
burden to establish that his membership in CWA meets all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). As already discussed, the CW A Management Measures only vaguely describe the 
requirements for senior membership and do not sufficiently support the Petitioner's claim that 
outstanding achievements in martial arts are an essential requirement for membership. Moreover, the 
Director also emphasized that the evidence submitted regarding CW A and other associations in which 
the Petitioner is a member does not demonstrate that the persons judging or reviewing membership 
applications are recognized national or international experts in the field. With respect to the CW A, 
the evidence simply indicates that applications for membership are submitted to "the CW A" for 
approval. While the Petitioner indicates that it is a discretionary decision, and thus implies a level of 
judging, the record does not establish who performs this judging, what their qualifications are, or 
7 
whether those who review membership applications are national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 04, 2024 In Re: 29963016 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineer and researcher, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mechanical engineer whose research and work has focused on application of the 
finite element method (FEM), an engineering computational tool. He intends to continue his work in 
the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), (vi), or (viii). The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he meets these four criteria for 
his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, for his original contributions of major 
significance in the field, for his authorship of scholarly articles, and for his performance in a critical 
role for a reputable organization. He submits documentation previously included in the record. Upon 
review, we conclude that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director's decision references, in part, a letter from a professor "that claims that an invitation was 
extended and accepted" for the Petitioner's participation on a conference panel. While the Director 
claims that the letter does not have probative value because it does not establish that the Petitioner 
actually performed in a judging capacity, review of the letter shows that it affirms the Petitioner's 
participation and even comments on the quality of his review. The letter also explains in detail why 
the Petitioner's research prompted the professor to invite him to join the panel. The letter is supported 
by material about the conference, including a brochure depicting the professor as a committee member 
and coordinator. We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's authorship ofscholarly articles in the.field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Although the Director's decision acknowledges the Petitioner's submission of several articles to which 
he contributed, the Director states that "no clear evidence was submitted with the articles establishing 
that the publications are considered professional or major trade publications or other major media." 
Contrarily, documentation in the record-including letters from experts in the field whose credibility 
2 
is established by detailed descriptions of their work and standing within their field-speaks to the 
professionalism of a trade publication in which the Petitioner's research has appeared and the 
reputability ofthe conferences at which he has presented his research. We conclude that the Petitioner 
has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director's decision acknowledges letters describing the Petitioner's work during his employment 
at the headquarters of a developer of industrial pipe supports. While the Director recognizes that 
these letters describe the Petitioner's "past works and accomplishments," the Director concludes that 
the letters do not contain "detailed and probative information" specifically addressing how the 
Petitioner's role was leading or critical for the organization. 
Upon review, we conclude that the record demonstrates that the Petitioner performed in a leading role 
for the organization. A letter from a product development supervisor at the company who worked 
with the Petitioner provides a detailed account of the nature of the Petitioner's work and describes his 
role as leading the development of a new product line for cryogenic pipe supports. The author states 
that the Petitioner's knowledge and innovative approach contributed to the successful and expedient 
transition ofpipe support manufacturing from the company's sister facility in China to North America. 
The author also describes the Petitioner's involvement in creating automation tools that were used to 
more efficiently manufacture products for new projects. The credibility ofthis letter and another letter 
from a former colleague are supported by documentation about the company, which is a multimillion­
dollar leading specialist in industrial pipe support systems that supplies products to power and 
petrochemical facilities worldwide. We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
In our review of the entirety of the record to evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
is among those at the top of his field of endeavor, we tum to his assertion that he meets the following 
criterion: 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. See 
generalZv https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chpter-2 ( advising, in part, that 
although published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work 
is of major significance). For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references numerous letters of support in the record, stating ( quoted as 
written), "The letters in the record repeatedly describe the Petitioner's research as unique and 
extraordinary and has benefited multinational U.S. companies in major industries." Indeed, several 
3 
letters from the Petitioner's former instructors and colleagues convey the high regard in which they 
hold both the Petitioner's work and the Petitioner's himself as a thorough, knowledgeable, and creative 
individual. The letters convey the potential importance of the Petitioner's research to the agricultural, 
medical supply, and automotive industries. For example, discussing the Petitioner's research on the 
wear of plowshares during tillage of complex soils, a professor on his dissertation committee writes 
the following (quoted as written): 
[The Petitioner's] research objective was to determine the cause for premature wear 
and failure of the tilling tool when minimal information was available for the 
performance of the plowshare's material. At the beginning ofthis work there was very 
little in the literature on solution methodologies combined analysis and empirical data 
on material removal in this slow process relevant to agriculture. [The Petitioner's] 
approach to solving was unique and forward looking by combining information from 
the extensive literature on machining and the use of numerical techniques to solve the 
resulting complex boundary value problems resulting from the modeling ofthe soil and 
plowshare interaction. He was able to solve this multi-dimensional problem and 
provided a solution methodology using the finite element method that allows the time 
to replace the worn tool for developers ofplows. The results of [the Petitioner's] impact 
in the field of material removal and failure that will aid it the development of better 
agricultural tools and practices as the expanding need for food increases in importance 
for developing countries. 
Another professor who worked with the Petitioner states, 
The research methodology that [the Petitioner] used can be used to optimize the tool 
material and the tool geometry .... The research methodology can potentially be used 
in designing new tools with increased wear-life that result in economic benefits that are 
particularly critical in developing countries. 
A third professor who worked with the Petitioner writes, 
[The Petitioner] carried out a numerical study of abrasive wear in tillage tools due to 
soil-tool interaction. He adopted a fundamental approach of simulating the interaction 
of a single sand particle with a tool, and developed a better understanding of the 
mechanism by which the sand particle "scratches" on the surface of the tool. His work 
led to fundamental insights into the mechanics of this scratching process. . . . Such 
fundamental understanding can be utilized to better design tools to minimize abrasive 
wear. 
Another professor writes, 
The work done by [ the Petitioner] has reduced the field and the experimental testing to 
identify the soil, the tool material properties, and the environmental properties required 
to study their effects on the tool wear rate. His work has led to the proper utilization 
of the available data and the natural resources to reduce the impact of the tool wear has 
on the farming industry. 
4 
These and other letters of record speak to the originality of the Petitioner's research and the potential 
positive impacts of his methodologies on various industrial and economic sectors. However, while 
some letters include language that alludes to the impact ofthe Petitioner's research and methodologies, 
they do not provide examples of the depth or breadth of that impact. Neither the letters nor other 
evidence within the record shows how the Petitioner's work has been widely implemented or has 
otherwise impacted the field of mechanical engineering or fields directly related to advancements in 
engineering methodologies. 
And although the fact that the Petitioner's work has been published, cited, and presented at conferences 
may support the possibility that awareness of the Petitioner's work has grown or will grow, the 
dissemination of the Petitioner's work is not, in itself: evidence of its impact. While experts in the 
field may recognize the potential significance of the Petitioner's research within the field, the plain 
language of the criterion requires evidence of original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In evaluating the evidence, eligibility is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by 
its quality. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). Absent the submission of 
sufficient contemporaneous probative evidence to support the Petitioner's assertions, he has not 
established the significance of his research here. 
We have also considered the evidence related to the Petitioner's work for the company specializing in 
pipe support design and production. As noted previously, the letter from the product development 
supervisor credits the Petitioner with the successful movement of the design and manufacturing of 
cryogenic pipe supports from a facility in China to North America. While this and a letter from another 
colleague highlight the importance and value of the Petitioner's job performance during his 
employment, they do not describe how his contributions as an employee led to impacts beyond their 
businesses. The letters' authors repeatedly refer to the Petitioner's original and innovative approaches, 
but they do not describe those approaches or elaborate on any specific resulting outcomes. The record 
does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate the Petitioner's original contributions of major 
significance in the field. This criterion has not been met. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner is a talented mechanical engineer; he has applied his skills 
to research that holds the potential to improve the wear resistance for blade machinery and to the 
successful overseas transition of pipe support design and manufacturing for a multimillion-dollar 
organization. However, while the Petitioner has met the minimum requirement of demonstrating 
extraordinary ability by meeting three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record does not 
contain evidence sufficient to show that he has risen to the top of his field and has sustained national 
5 
or international acclaim in that field. We note that the weight given to evidence depends on the extent 
to which such evidence demonstrates, reflects, or is consistent with the sustained national or 
international acclaim enjoyed by those at the very top of their field of endeavor. A lesser showing 
would be inconsistent with the regulatory definition of "extraordinary ability" as "a level of expertise 
indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For example, the record shows that the Petitioner has participated as a judge on a single conference 
panel. While the coordinator of the conference speaks highly of the Petitioner's work on the panel, 
the record does not include documentation demonstrating that the conference was of such notability 
as to warrant the participation of an individual of national or international acclaim in his field. In 
addition, it might be reasonable to expect that an engineer at the top of his field would have served on 
more than one panel or would have performed in a leading role on a panel; the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has done so or has had comparable experiences. 
As another example, although the record shows that the Petitioner has authored a research paper that 
appeared in a major trade publication and has presented his research at several conferences, the record 
does not include evidence showing that his work has been widely applied in the field of mechanical 
engineering or has significantly impacted some element of that field. We incorporate our previous 
analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which the Petitioner did not satisfy. 
Further, the record shows that the Petitioner performed in a leading role during the overseas transfer 
of a reputable company's product line; while this may have been an important undertaking for the 
company, it would not be unreasonable to expect that a mechanical engineer at the top of his field 
would have served in more than one leading or critical role for one or more distinguished 
establishments or organizations. In tum, one might expect an individual to have received national or 
international acclaim for having served in those roles or, perhaps, in a single role for an effort that 
received national or international media coverage for its prominence. Here, the record does not include 
evidence showing that the Petitioner has been recognized in a manner that would demonstrate his 
national or international acclaim. 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates the Petitioner's proficiency and promise in the field 
of mechanical engineering. However, the record does not contain evidence sufficient to demonstrate 
that he has received national or international acclaim for his research or other work within the field. 
He has not demonstrated through "extensive documentation" that his efforts have brought him the 
requisite sustained acclaim at a national or international level, such that we could conclude that he has 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. As such, the record does not indicate he 
currently has a degree of recognition for his achievements consistent with the sustained acclaim that 
the statute demands. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one 
ofthe small percentage who has risen to the very top ofhis field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 4, 2024 In Re: 30218079 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a purported expert in artificial intelligence (Al) and mobile application ( app) 
development, seeks classification under the employment-based , fust-preference (EB-1) immigrant 
visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This EB-I category provides immigrant visas to 
noncitizens who demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive 
documentation " of recognition of their achievements in their fields. Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied one initial evidentiary requirement -two less than needed to qualify for a final 
merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets eight other evidentiary criteria 
and has demonstrated his possession of extraordinary ability in the AI and app development field. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met the requisite number of evidentiary 
criteria. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements above, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing the 
noncitizen among the small percentage at their field's very top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner 
The record shows that a university in the Petitioner's home country of Russia awarded him a dip/om 
magistra in engineering. His major fields of study consisted of aviation instruments, and computing 
and measurement complexes. He then worked in the information technology (IT) field for about six 
years, developing industrial and financial software for his employers. In 2011, he began working for 
himself: creating apps for social networks and organizing various business, industrial, and educational 
forums. In 2015, he also began developing algorithms for trading strategies on the Moscow Stock 
Exchange. 
Since 2020, the Petitioner has completed online coursework in AI and data science and participated in 
various international AI and machine learning competitions. He seeks to permanently work in the 
United States, developing AI products and services. 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner demonstrated his "authorship ofscholarly 
articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or major media." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the following evidentiary 
criteria: 
B. Receipt of Lesser Prizes or Awards 
This criterion requires documentation of a petitioner's receipt of "nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). When 
adjudicating this requirement, USCIS should first determine if a noncitizen -as opposed, for example, 
to their employer -received a prize or award. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the Agency should then determine whether the prize or award 
is nationally or internationally recognized and issued for excellence in the endeavor's field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he received the following awards: 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
• First place in a regional "Informatics Olympiad" among students in 59 schools when he was 
in high school; 
• A bronze medal in a 2021 international competition to use machine learning to detect and 
position catheters and lines on chest x-rays; 
• A gold medal in a 2021 international competition to develop an online product-matching 
system; 
• A silver medal in a 2022 international competition to automate the identification ofwhales and 
dolphins; and 
• The title of "expert" in 2022 on an online competition platform for AI programmers and data 
scientists. 
The Petitioner established that these honors recognize excellence in the AI and app development field. 
But, as the Director found, the record lacks sufficient evidence of the awards' purported national or 
international recognition, such as media coverage about them or their presentations at national or 
international conferences in the field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp.2d 126, 136 (D.D.C. 2013) 
( finding insufficient evidence of awards' national or international recognition where the record lacked 
proof ofrecognition beyond the presenting organizations). Thus, contrary to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
the Petitioner has not documented that his awards for excellence in the field are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
C. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievement 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit documentation of their "membership in 
associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of 
their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his purported memberships in the following four groups: 
• An online community of AI programmers and data scientists with more than 3 million 
members; 
• An international community of data science, AI, and machine learning practitioners with more 
than 40,000 members; 
• An organization for people and businesses performing engineering-related activities; and 
• An online Russian club for game developers. 
The Petitioner has documented his membership in the engineering-related organization and provided 
a copy of an invitation he received to join the data science, AI, and machine learning community. But 
the record does not establish his membership in the other two groups or their issuance ofmemberships. 
See Goncharov v. Allen, No. 3:21-CV-1372-B, 2022 WL 17327304, *5 (N.D. Tex. Nov. 29, 2022) 
(stating that "[n]o reasonable analysis" could find 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) satisfied without evidence 
of "associations which grant memberships"). Moreover, the record lacks evidence that any ofthe four 
organizations require outstanding achievements of their members or that national or international 
experts judge the achievements of aspiring members. See, e.g., Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105, 
2007 WL 9229758, *5 (S.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 Fed. Appx 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (holding 
that, without evidence that any of the organizations required outstanding achievements of their 
3 
members, a petitioner's membership in multiple Jiu Jitsu organizations did not satisfy 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). Thus, the Petitioner has not met this evidentiary requirement. 
D. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the material's title, date, and author, and 
any 
necessary translation. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that, in 2022, two business technology websites in Russia published 
separate articles about him and his work. He also provided evidence from a reputable web analytics 
company. The company ranked the first website 130th in online traffic among technology-related 
websites in Russia, while the second website ranked 172nd in the same category. Based on these 
rankings, the record does not establish the websites as "major trade publications" or "major media" in 
Russia. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) (listing readership, circulation, or viewership as 
relevant factors in determining "major trade publications" or "major media" under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii)). 
The Petitioner stated that a third Russian website -ranked first in the country in online traffic in the 
"community and society" category -also published the article that originally appeared on the second 
technology website. Based on the third website's ranking in Russia, the site appears to constitute a 
major medium. But the Petitioner did not submit documentary proof to corroborate the site's 
publication of the article. Thus, the third website does not demonstrate the Petitioner's satisfaction of 
this evidentiary criterion. 
Also, the record does not establish the business technology websites as "professional" publications. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the websites' intended audiences are professionals in the 
technology field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) ("In evaluating whether a submitted 
publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors 
include the intended audience.") For the foregoing reasons, we agree with the Director that, contrary 
to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he provided published materials 
about himself in "professional or major trade publications or other major media." 
E. Participation as a Judge of Others' Work 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit evidence of their "participation, either individually 
or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which 
classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). A petitioner must not only show that they were 
invited to judge the work ofothers, but also that they actually judged the work. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that, in 2012 and 2013, he served on expert commissions that 
evaluated the attractiveness of projects presented by universities and small enterprises. A letter from 
the organizer ofthe 2012 forum states that the projects that year resulted in recommendations to amend 
Russia's tax code, optimize a tariff for innovative businesses, and create investment infrastructure. 
These results indicate that the projects were business- or tax-related. Thus, contrary to 8 C.F.R. 
4 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his participation on the comm1ss10ns 
involved judging work in AI, app development, or an allied field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that, on multiple occasions since 2014, he evaluated software 
products for businesses and educational organizations. Software packages, however, can reflect 
contributions from people in a variety of fields, including: executives; accountants; and marketing 
representatives. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he judged the work of other people in his 
field, such as software developers. Further, he has not established that he judged or critiqued the 
software, as opposed to determining which application best suited an individual organization. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his submission of evidence of his participation 
as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field. 
F. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). USCIS should first determine whether a noncitizen has made original 
contributions in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency should then 
determine whether any of them are of "major significance." Id. 
As proof of the Petitioner's purported original contributions to his field, he submitted nine support 
letters. Two educational directors described IT projects that the Petitioner completed for their 
institutions. One director stated that the Petitioner improved students' average academic performance 
by developing a website allowing teachers to upload lectures for student access and detailing student 
information. The other director stated that the Petitioner increased the number of students seeking his 
institution's services by optimizing its websites' rankings on search engines, almost tripling the sites' 
traffic. Also, a manager ofa bank that previously employed the Petitioner described how the Petitioner 
attracted additional customers by developing software to receive and send deposits in Russian post 
offices, thereby extending banking services to sparsely populated areas. Others in the Petitioner's 
field cited his development of a social media app that garnered more than 1 7 million downloads and 
his scholarly articles in the field. 
As the Director found, however, the Petitioner has not established that these contributions to his field 
have "major significance." The IT projects for the educational institutions might have major 
significance for the organizations, their communities, or the educational field. But the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated the projects' importance to his field of AI and app development. Also, two data 
scientists stated that other software developers copied technical and visual components of the 
Petitioner's social media app. But the record lacks sufficient corroborating evidence to demonstrate 
that his app design had "major significance" in the field. Further, the Petitioner submitted copies of 
his published scholarly articles in the field. But the record does not show that others in the field 
regularly cited his articles or otherwise explain their significance. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l) ("[P]ublished research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from 
others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in 
that field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor"). 
5 
The authors of two of the support letters stated that they had never met the Petitioner but were aware 
of his work and considered him to be one of the top AI and app developers in Russia. But the record 
shows that the authors of the other seven letters comprise clients, business associates, and a former 
employer of the Petitioner. See Goncharov, 2022 WL 17327304 at *5 (holding that 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, clients, or customers") 
( citations omitted). 
Also, the support letters do not specify the significance of the Petitioner's contributions to his field. 
For example, evidence does not identify specific software developers who purportedly copied 
components of his social media app. To establish "major significance," evidence must show that a 
petitioner's work has been "widely" adopted or replicated by people in the field who are unaffiliated 
with the petitioner. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,394 (5th Cir. 2022). The evidence must include 
"specific information relating to the impact of a petitioner's work in the field as a whole." Visinscaia, 
4 F.Supp.3d at 134. 
As the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated the significance of his contributions to his field, 
we will affirm the Director's finding that he did not meet the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
G. Display of Work in the Field 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions 
or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). USCIS first determines whether the displayed work 
constitutes a petitioner's work product. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then 
determines whether the venues that displayed the work constitute artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
Id. The term "exhibition" means a public showing, as of works of art, objects of manufacture, or 
athletic skill. See Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ 
exhibition. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of social media apps that he developed and his presentation of 
scholarly articles at scientific conferences in 2022 and 2023. The record demonstrates that he 
produced all these materials. But, as the Director found, the Petitioner has not established that the 
venues that displayed his work constitute "artistic exhibitions or showcases." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) (emphasis added); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (affirming our finding that 
a physicist did not demonstrate display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases where he had 
self-published a textbook, lectured at a community college, and presented at scientific conferences). 
The record therefore does not demonstrate the Petitioner's satisfaction of this evidentiary criterion. 
H. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner "has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS should first determine whether a petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, division, or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization, 
6 
establishment, division, or department. Id. A critical role means that a petitioner has contributed in a 
way that is of significant importance to the organization's results or activities. Id. 
USCIS should next determine whether the organization, establishment, division, or department has a 
distinguished reputation. Id. The word "distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence." Merriam-Webster, Online Dictionary, www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ 
distinguished. Relevant factors may include: an organization's relative size or longevity; the scale of 
its customer base, or relevant media coverage of it. Id. 
The Petitioner asserts that he led his business and provided critical IT services to customer 
organizations. The record demonstrates that he led his business. But he has not established that it had 
a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner argues that it developed several successful social media 
apps, including the one that garnered more than 17 million downloads. But the business itself was 
small, as the Petitioner constituted its sole employee. Also, it operated only about nine years, as the 
Petitioner stated that he sold it in 2020. He has not submitted any evidence that the business received 
media coverage or awards. Thus, contrary to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the record does not establish 
that his business had a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that three of the other four organizations have distinguished 
reputations. Evidence regarding a regional government ministry, an educational organization, and a 
marketing company that does business with the Petitioner does not establish the entities' eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. But the record shows that the company whose platform offered the 
Petitioner's apps is Russia's most popular and largest social medium and network. At the end of2022, 
the company had the sixth most popular website in the country and the 16th most popular in the world. 
Thus, based on size and customer base, we agree that the social media company has a distinguished 
reputation. 
The evidence, however, does not demonstrate the Petitioner's performance in a critical role for the 
social media company. The company allowed him to download his apps onto its game platform, but 
it did not employ him. We recognize that he developed one of the three most popular apps on the 
company's platform. But the record lacks details regarding the importance of the Petitioner or his 
apps to the company. In brief and virtually identical letters, the company's general director and game 
platform administrator verified the downloading of the Petitioner's app onto the company's platform 
and the popularity of one of his apps. The letters state that he "made a considerable contribution to 
our Company development." But the letters do not explain how the Petitioner contributed to the 
company's results or activities, or the importance of his contributions. See Goncharov, 2022 WL 
17327304 at *6 ( affirming USCIS' finding that evidence of a petitioner's purported performance in a 
critical role must explain the work's importance to the organization). The Petitioner therefore has not 
met this evidentiary requirement. 
I. High Salary in the Field 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner "has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
7 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he has received income from three sources: his business; stock 
trading algorithms he developed for a brokerage; and stock trading algorithms he developed for a bank. 
He documented that, from 2015 to 2021, his total income exceeded the average wages of software 
developers in his region. 
The Petitioner's region, however, lies about 250 miles from Moscow, Russia's largest city. Thus, 
evidence of wages in his region may not accurately state the average wage of software developers in 
Russia as a whole. See Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1232 n.12 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (stating that 
the Act "clearly contemplates judging an alien's extraordinary ability, or lack thereof: by national 
standards"). He has therefore not sufficiently demonstrated his commandment of a high salary in 
relation to others in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's evidence does not meet at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria for the requested 
immigrant visa category. We will therefore affirm the motion to reopen's dismissal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 4, 2024 In Re: 29867541 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a public school system, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual ofextraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award) or that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for 
the requested classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner intends to permanently employ the Beneficiary in the position of high school science 
teacher. It states that the Beneficiary "has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor and is among 
the 'most-skilled, highest-paid' professionals in the industry." 
The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary won a major, internationally recognized award 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and alternatively claimed that he also satisfies at least three of the ten 
alternative criteria. The Director determined that the Beneficiary's one-time achievement did not meet 
the criteria of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further detennined that the Petitioner had 
established that the Beneficiary met only two of the required three alternative criteria -judging the 
work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and commanding a high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's one-time achievement is comparable to a 
major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner further asserts that the record includes 
comparable evidence to establish that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the alternative criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(b)(3)(i) and (viii). 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability based on bis one-time achievement of the Teacher of the Year Award, that the Beneficiary 
received in 2021 from the_____________________ The Director first 
noted in a request for evidence (RFE) that the record did not include evidence that the competition for 
the award attracted internationally recognized individuals in the field. After reviewing the Petitioner's 
response to the RFE, the Director noted that the information about the award indicated that nominees 
must be members of tbel Ito be eligible for consideration, excluding individuals who are not part 
2 
of a specific association based in the United States. He also noted that all published materials about 
the award originated froml Iindicating that the award lacks international-level media coverage. 
The Director concluded that the record did not demonstrate that this award was internationally 
recognized in the field to reach the level of one-time achievement. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "teaching as a field does not receive recognition in the media 
commensurate with its contributions," and that comparable evidence, including evidence of regional 
and local media coverage of the Beneficiary's Teacher of the Year Award, should be considered. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection ofNobel Laureates, 
the example Congress provided, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash 
prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, Congress' example clearly shows that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top awards. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). As 
such, the Petitioner must offer sufficient evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary's 2021 I I 
Teacher of the Year Award qualifies as "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). While it may be true that teaching as a field does not gamer significant recognition in the 
media, this does not exempt the Petitioner from establishing that the award is internationally 
recognized under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's Teacher of the Year award qualifies as a one-time 
achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary satisfies at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As noted above, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner met the plain language requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating 
to judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and commanding a high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) related to lesser nationally recognized awards, and (viii) performing in a leading role 
for organizations with a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal 
3 
the Director's conclusions that he does not meet the membership in associations requiring outstanding 
achievement (ii), published materials (iii), or original contributions of major significance (v) criteria. 
Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., 
MatterofO-R-E-, 28 I&NDec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA2021) (citingMatterofRA-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 
n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
Relevant considerations regarding whether excellence in the field was the basis for granting the prizes 
or awards include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national 
or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. Id. (indicating that an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or international 
significance). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary received the following awards to meet this criterion: 
• Current Semifinalist for Science Teaching Award by the~-----~ 
._________ ___. (2023). 
• Chemistry Teacher of the Year Award by the I I (2021 ). 
• Excellence in Environmental Education Award: Outstanding Environmental 
Educator in P-12 Settings by thel !Association for Environmental Education 
(2021). 
• Computer Science Teaching Excellence A wards by the Comguter Science Teachers 
Association and Infosys Foundation USAI J(2021, 2022). 
• Sustainable Economic Development A ward (2018). 
• Excellence in Education A ward: Sustainable Economic Development Initiative in 
'------~(2018). 
• Teacher of the Year Award: Governor's Celebration oflnnovation by the~I--~ 
Technology Council (2018, with honorable mention in 2015-2017). • I I Rural County Teacher of the Year Award from I 1(2017). 
• Outstanding Earth Science Teacher of the Year Award: Southwest Section State 
Award inl lby the National Association of Geoscience Teachers (2016). • I !Teacher of the Year Award (2015). 
• STEM Superhero Award by the I !Foundation (2014). 
The Director determined that this criterion was not met because "the Beneficiary's prizes or awards 
appear to be local or regional in nature." The Dirytor agrn noted that consideration for the I 
Chemistry Teacher of the Year Award is limited to members and the record lacks information 
about I Imembership. The Director also noted that the record did not include evidence such as 
national or international-level media coverage to show that the award represents national or 
4 I 
international recogmt10n. The Director further noted that the Beneficiary's consideration as a 
"semifinalist" is not an actual prize or award, as the award winner is yet to be determined. 
In its brief on appeal, the Petitioner addresses Inly thl first two awards mentioned above -the 
Chemistry Teacher of the Year Award from and the~ Science Teaching Award 
(semifinalist) froml IThe Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's status as a semifinalist was 
based on his selection among only ten candidates nationally. However, the Petitioner does not explain 
how this selection as a semifinalist, without meeting the plain language of being "in receipt" of the 
award, demonstrates that the Beneficiary has met this criterion. 
With regard to thel IChemistry Teacher of the Year Award, the Petitioner asserts that I l"is 
a national organization that primarily serves K-12 teachers but is open to all with an interest in 
chemistryl education." The Petitioner states that one purpose of limiting consideration for the award 
to 1 members is to ensure that only licensed teachers be considered, as I I"has already 
verified that the individual is a licensed teacher currently working in the United States." The Petitioner 
further states that the award winner is "chosen from chemistry teachers from across the United States 
and that, therefore, this award is national in scope." Additionally, the Petitioner requests that 
comparable evidence of the scope of the award be considered, "in light of the fact that national 
coverage of the teaching industry is much rarer than in other fields." 
In determining whether an award meets this criterion, the USCIS Policy Manual states that limitations 
on competitors is a relevant consideration regarding whether the basis for granting the award was 
excellence in the field. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). Other considerations include 
the criteria used to grant the award, the national or international significance of the award in the field, 
and the number of award recipients. See id. 
The record includes the selection criteria for the ....I _ ___,I Teacher of the Year Award, which involves 
two criteria of equal value: 
• Excellence in chemistry, teaching and innovation (defining attributes include: 
innovative and effective chemistry teaching, inspiring and ciallengilg students, 
and positive contributions to the teaching profession outside of ; and 
• Outstanding contributions to chemistry teaching through I I I(defining attributes 
include: participation in I Iactivities, contributions to materials and 
offerings, quality of contributions to I Iincluding impact on students and 
colleagues, and promotion ofl Ito colleagues). 
The above criteria are judged based on the required submission of an application questionnaire, a 
resume, and a letter of support that cites to specific examples of the applicant's eligibility. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references an expert opinion prepared by I lof~I----~ 
University. We acknowledge that the expert opinion includes an analysis ofthe Beneficiary's asserted 
qualifications as an individual of extraordinary ability under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), as well as a 
"final merits" analysis, in which I I discusses information that he asserts should be considered 
in any review in the totality. 1 In his analysis I !generally discusses the I I Chemistry 
1 The expert opinion does not address any other alternative criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
5 
I Teacher of the Year Award and its criteria. He states that the "award is prestigious in nature" and that 
"only a few teachers are recognized at a national level for their skills in teaching." However, I 
does not support these assertions with facts, statistics or citations. Further, we note thatl lstates 
that the Beneficiary "is a person of extraordinary ability in the field of business." This statement is 
not consistent with the Petitioner's assertion that the Beneficiary is an individual of extraordinary 
ability in education, rather than business. 
As a matter of discretion, we may use opm10n statements submitted by the Petitioner as 
advisory. Matter ofCaron Int'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, we will reject 
an opinion or give it less weight if it is not in accord with other information in the record or if it is in 
any way questionable. Id. We are ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding 
an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought; the submission of expert opinion letters is not 
presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. Here, the advisory opinion is of little probative value as it 
does not meaningfully address whether the I I Chemistry Teacher of the Year Award is a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in the field of endeavor in accordance with the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established the national or international 
significance of theI IChemistry Teacher of the Year Award. Although the Petitioner asserts that 
national or international-level media coverage is not available and submits evidence to support the 
limited recognition of awards for teaching, the Petitioner does not submit comparable evidence to 
demonstrate the national significance ofthel laward. The Petitioner's appellate arguments center 
on the national scope of theI Irather than on whether the award itself is nationally recognized 
and awarded for excellence in the field of endeavor. In examining all of the relevant considerations, 
we conclude that it is not. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a petitioner must establish that a 
beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for an organization, and also that the organization 
has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). The Petitioner asserts 
that the Beneficiary holds the following roles that meet this criterion: 
• Regional Director of the.__________________ __. (2013-
2017). 
• Member of the Board of Directors of the ._____________ ___. 
~---------' (2017-20~21_.__.------------~ 
• Equity Fellowship member for.___________________ __. 
2021-2022 . 
• ,,__________________ .....,Ambassador (2020, 2021 ). 
• Academy Ambassai-'d'--'-o_r ......(2_0'--2--'-0....., _20-'-2_1_.)-'-.---------------. 
• ~-~Ambassador by._l___________________ ___. 
Physics Teachers (2021-2022). 
6 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate this criterion because the record did 
not indicate that each of the Beneficiary's roles was leading or critical or that each organization had a 
distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence aboutl IandI Iand references 
evidence already in the record. He does not address the other three organizations referenced in the list 
above. The Petitioner describes I I as a chapter of the National Science Teachers Association and 
submits a letter from I I executive director recommending the Beneficiary for a doctoral 
program. The letter does not describe the Beneficiary's duties as regional director or explain how this 
role is leading or critical. Nor does the evidence in the record describe I I distinguished 
reputation. 
The Petitioner provides an organizational chart ofI !indicating that the board of directors "sits 
at the very top of the executive structure of this organization." Also included is a letter from the 
president of I I referencing the organization's bylaws with the job description for board 
members. However, the letter does not explain how this role is leading or critical. Nor does the 
evidence in the record describe! Idistinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner submits a letter from the professional learning manager o~ I The letter describes 
.___ _.I as "an international organization dedicated to the creation of a community of computer science 
teachers teaching students from kindergarten through high school." The letter also describes the duties 
of an equity fellow. However, the letter does not include a description of the Beneficiary's specific 
accomplishments as an equity fellow or explain how this role is leading or critical. Nor does the 
evidence in the record describe I !distinguished reputation. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has performed 
in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. The record does not 
specify how the Beneficiary contributed to these organizations in a way that is significant to the 
organizations' outcome or what role he played in the organization's activities. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, at 135 (D.D.C. Dec. 16, 2013). The regulation also requires that the organization 
have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner does not address this prong of the criterion, and the 
record lacks evidence establishing the reputation of the organizations. In light of the above, the 
Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
C. Comparable Evidence 
Several of the criteria are written broadly such that they can readily apply to the greatest number of 
occupations. 56 Fed. Reg. 60897-01, 60898. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) permits the 
submission of comparable evidence if a petitioner is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the occupation. It is the Petitioner's burden to explain why 
the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to the occupation and how the evidence submitted is 
"comparable" to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
7 
Here, the Petitioner requests consideration of comparable evidence because recognition in the field of 
teaching does not generally gamer national or international attention. The regulatory language 
precludes the consideration of comparable evidence in this case, however, as there is no indication 
that eligibility for visa preference in the occupation as a teacher cannot be established by at least three 
of the ten criteria specified by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In fact, as indicated in this 
decision, the Petitioner mentioned evidence that specifically addressed seven of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Additionally, in the RFE the Director provided examples of internationally 
recognized prizes or awards in the field or education. The Petitioner did not submit evidence that the 
Beneficiary received any of the awards listed in the RFE. Where a petitioner is unable to meet or 
submit sufficient documentary evidence of at least three of these criteria, the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) does not allow for the submission of comparable evidence. As 
such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that it may rely on comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence that establishes the Beneficiary's receipt 
of a one-time achievement or shows that he meets at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, after reviewing the record in the aggregate, we conclude that it does not sufficiently 
demonstrate the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim or that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6130989 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a construction manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner has 
received a major, internationally recognized award or met the requirements of at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional 
evidence and asserts that in addition to the two evidentiary criteria that the Director found he met, he 
meets an additional three criteria and has sustained national or international acclaim. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner currently serves as Vice President (Engineering) fo~~-- ..... 
'----~-~--~----' in China, and has served as a construction project manager for that 
company and his previous employer. It further indicates that he is also a co-founder of a real estate 
investment company based in Southern California. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to media about him and his work and his leading or critical 
role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally or internally recognized awards, 
contributions of major significance to the field, and a high salary relative to others in his field. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet the requisite three evidentiary 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted certificates which indicate that ~be I I I 
.__ _________________ ____. received a [ I prize for "National High-Quality 
Construction" as a participant in the construction of three projects, in 1995, 1997 and 2002. The 
Petitioner also submitted photographs of three trophies, including plaques with text which was not 
translated into English, as well as photographs of him holding the certificates and trophies. 
The plain language of the regulations for this criterion require that it is the alien who must have 
received the award. Here, the certificates name a codpany js the recipient of these awards. In 
addition, the notice of a revised selection method for th prize, which was issued by the China 
Construction Industry Association (CCIA), explains that it is "construction enterprises" who may 
2 
"voluntarily declare projects for thel I Prize." In its response to the Director's request for 
evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a decision issued to a different petitioner in an unrelated 
case, in which we considered whether that petitioner was so integral to his employer's receipt of an 
award that he could be considered a de facto recipient. We note that this decision was not published as 
a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and 
may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. In this case, the inconsistencies in the evidence relating to which entity 
received the award, and the Petitioner's role in the winning construction projects, do not support a finding 
that he may be considered to be a recipient of any of the three I I prizes. 
We first note that there are discrepancies within the record regarding the Petitioner's employment by the 
i;nanv named on2ertificates. His own resume indicates that he was rniployed by thel I 
from October 1994 to December 2007, and this is also the company name used 
by~----~ general manager of the company, in his reference letter. While a certificate entitled 
'job offer" was submitted which indicates that the Petitioner was hired by I I in the month of 
October 1994, rather than a s ecific date in that month, an or anizational chart included at Exhibit 41 of 
the record shows tha is one of three subsidiaries o but that the Petitioner was employed 
by a different subsidiary,~---------------' In addition, the Petitioner submitted 
printed webpages from a website, http://www.smelx.com which indicate that those same awards were 
granted to a third different company, the~ ______________ ___,company, in 1997 
and 2000. The Petitioner has not resolved these discrepancies in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
More importantly, despite the evidence which clearly indicates that it is companies which receive the I I prize, several reference letters submitted by the Petitioner refer to his receipt of the thre~ I 
prizes noted above. I I, who indicates that he hired the Petitioner and worked with him, describes 
the Petitioner's role in all three projects as that of "project manager" with "the leading construction 
management role." He describes all three of the prize-winning construction projects, and writes that in 
each one, the Petitioner was the "only manager," "organiz[ ed] hundreds of workers," "was in charge of 
ascertaining load, power and structural requirements," and "was responsible for analyzing the building 
and system prototypes submitted by his architectural team," among other com lex tasks. However, while I I does not provide the dates of the Petitioner's employment wit,,_,__,..................,..,Petitioner' s resume 
indicates that he began employment with the company months before the 1995 ~-~prize was awarded, 
and logically even fewer months before (or after) the project was completed and submitted for 
consideration for the award. It is therefore not credible that he could have performed the role described 
byl I regarding the construction of the 1995 award-winning project, some of which includes 
design and engineering duties which would have taken place prior to construction. As with the evidence 
regarding the name of the company which received thq lprizes, the Petitioner has not resolved these 
discrepancies in the record. Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-2. Further, this unresolved discrepancy regarding 
the project in 1995 leads us to question the reliability and sufficiency of the evidence and assertions 
regarding the other two projects which the Petitioner claims to have managed. Id. 
Finally, the Petitioner's resume indicates that at the time the Petitioner joinedD he had earned a high 
school diploma and had no experience in the management of construction projects, as an engineer or 
architect, or in the construction industry at all. The evidence does not establish that at the time of his 
3 
hiring in October 1994 he could have performed the complex and high-level responsibilities described in 
I I's letter, and others, without the education and experience those responsibilities require. 1 The 
record therefore does not include documentary evidence to support the claims mat by re Petitioner and 
in the reference letters regarding his leadership of large construction projects for or his role in his 
employer's or an affiliate's receipt of any awards or prizes. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Based solely upon the article in the record appearing in The China Press, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not provide sufficient reasoning for her decision 
to not grant this criterion, and reiterates his claim to have led the implementation of external wall 
insulation methods which were later incorporated into government regulations. The Petitioner refers 
to several reference letters which describe his role in increased use of this construction method in 
China. However, we note that depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, we may 
give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board oflmmigration Appeals 
(the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, 
e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, 
however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and 
documentary evidence, where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or 
credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B­
' 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Given the inconsistencies between statements in reference letters in 
the record and other documentary evidence, as has already been noted above, we find that the reference 
letters do not support the Petitioner's assertion. 
For example.I [ Deputy Director oflr-------,. ____________ .....11 
writes that the Petitioner's "leading role on the1._ _____ ___.I wall insulation design was also well 
1 While we recognize that education and employment standards vary by country, we note that the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, in the most recent edition of the Occupational Outlook Handbook, indicates that construction firms typically 
require a bachelor's degree in a related field and practical construction experience when hiring a construction manager, 
while some may qualify through extensive construction experience. https://www.bls.gov/ooh/management/construction­
managers.htm#tab-l. The evidence does not indicate that the Petitioner had similar education and experience at the time 
of hiring bye=] or that he later continued his education or participated in internships or other training programs. 
4 
acknowledged by the Chinese government, and provided a practical basis" for the 2008 regulations 
concerning its installation. He states that he recommended the Petitioner's methods to the government 
body which promulgated the reF,ulations, and that they "implemented his design and method" into the 
regulations. Althoughl suggests, as do the writers of other letters in the record, that it was the 
Petitioner who designed this type of insulation as well as methods for its installation, other evidence 
does not support this assertion. Most importantly, the regulations themselves note that the 2008 
revisions are based upon "extensive investigation and study, earnestly summarizing the practical 
experience, referring to the relevant international standards and foreign advanced standards, and based 
on extensive solicitation of opinions." This statement in the foreword of the regulation text indicates 
that rather than adopting the Petitioner's design and installation methods, as suggested in the reference 
letters, the drafting team referred to existing international standards as well as practice and experience 
throughout the industry. Any role the Petitioner may have had in responding to "the solicitation of 
opinions" aside, the direct and substantial contribution asserted in the reference letters is not supported 
by technical drawings, the submission of formal proposals to the drafting government body or related 
correspondence, patent or other intellectual property applications, or other documentation in the record 
to link the Petitioner to this revision to the regulations. 
Further, other reference letters in the record refer to the Petitioner's installation ofl lwall 
insulation on specific building projects, but do not support the originality of this contribution or its 
significance to the field of construction mTagemrt. For instance, I I Deputy Director 
in writes about the Petitioner's role in one project 
~a_n_d_h_i_s _r_e-co_m_m_e_n_d_a_t-io_n_r-eg_a_r_d-in_g_t_h_e~installation o±1 I wall insulation. While I 
O I 
expresses satisfaction with the performance of the insulation, his opinion relates to this single project 
involving the installation of an existing product, and does not demonstrate the originality or 
significance of the Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the three I I prizes discussed above show that those 
projects "set industry benchmarks across the country, which is by definition a national impact." 
However, as we have determined that those awards were neither granted to the Petitioner nor can be 
attributed to him, we need not consider whether they demonstrate that the Petitioner had the asserted 
national impact upon the construction industry. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
onse to the Director's RFE the Petitioner asserts that he has served in a 
r'-1"""!.l.U.Ll.-......l.!JL....l..LJL.U.l<J,LL....Ll,,~~---------.....---------=d....1,.----__J D and 
~------------....--~--------· Regarding '------1 while the Petitioner 
submitted a letter from.__ __ ........ who writes that he is the company's general manager, the record 
otherwise includes onl a copy of a website describing a different company named I I 
L..._ _ __,.----,_ ___ ____J ( emphasis added.) Here as with the other, previously analyzed reference 
letters,.__ __ _____,' s letter lacks specificity and is not supported by corroborative documentary evidence. 
This evidence is therefore insufficient to establish the existence or operational history ofl I its 
corporate ownership and organizational structure, the Petitioner's status as a co-founder and 
consultant, or the nature of its reputation. 
5 
Turning to the Petitioner's role withe=] he relies upon the reference letter from I I to 
establish his leadership within the company. However, as previously discussed under the criterion 
relating to lesser awards, I I's statements regarding his work as lead project manager for three 
award-winning projects contains factual inconsistencies related to the receipt of the awards, his 
involvement in at least one of those projects, and his qualification to perform the duties described. It 
is therefore insufficient to establish that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role forD 
Finally, the Petitioner's role with~videnced by a reference letter from I O O I 
general manager of the company. 2L___J indicates that after his hiring in 2008, the Petitioner rose 
to the position of vice general manager of the company, and "participated in the investment and 
construction" of several projects. This letter, together with another letter written by I I is 
sufficient to establish the Petitioner's leading role for this organization. 
However, the evidence does not establish that thel I enjoys a distinguished reputation in the 
construction industry. I I indicates that the company has earned a AAA credit rating and is 
"certified through ISO9001:2000 quality system standard and ISO14001:2004 environmental 
management system certification." This information is repeated on the company's website. In 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the 
meaning of these ratings and qualifications. Pages from the website www.investopedia.com state that 
a AAA credit rating "is the highest possible rating assigned to an issuer's bonds," and that "a high 
credit rating lowers the cost of borrowing for an issuer." Information about the referenced 
certifications from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was also submitted, with 
its website pages stating that the 9001:2001 certification is awarded where an organization 
"demonstrate[ s] its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable 
regulatory requirements" and "aims to enhance customer satisfaction through effective 
implementation of the [ quality management] system." Regarding the 14001 :2004 certification, the 
evidence states that "specifies requirements ... to enable an organization to develop and implement a 
policy and objectives which take into account legal requirements ... " This evidence indicates that a 
AAA credit rating indicates that the company "can easily meet its financial commitments," but it does 
not demonstrate that companies possessing such a rating have a distinguished reputation in their 
respective industries. Similarly, the ISO certifications indicate that an organization has developed and 
implemented internal systems to provide quality, customer satisfaction, and compliance with 
environmental requirements, but the evidence does not demonstrate that they do serve ~icator 
of that organization's reputation. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established thatL__J has a 
distinguished reputation. 
For all of the reasons given above, we disagree with the Director's decision regarding this criterion 
and withdraw that portion of his decision. 
2 He refers to the name of the company as ~--------------~' which is referred to as a 
subsidiary of an unnamed company in other evidence in the record. 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or 
total remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in 
his field in similar positions and geographic locations. 3 The Petitioner submitted evidence in the form 
of an employment verification letter stating that in his employment withl lin the position of vice 
president, he earned an annual salary of RMB 600,000, and that in the years 2012 through 2016 he 
earned project bonuses of between RMB 600,000 and RMB 1,600,000. 
As evidence of comparative salaries in his field, the Petitioner submitted several salary surveys as well 
as excerpts from the annual reports of two large construction companies in China which included the 
salaries of their top executives. The first such salary survey, produced by the National Bureau of 
Statistics (China) and reviewing a wide range of salaries for 2017, provides national average salaries 
for "middle-level managers and above," among other categories of workers, for several industries, 
including architecture and real estate. However, the definition of this occupation type appears to 
include managers at organizational levels both above and below the Petitioner's. Further, the salary 
figures provided are averages, and take into account the salaries of managers throughout China. This 
survey therefore does not provide data that is sufficiently specific to form a basis for comparison to 
the Petitioner's earnings. 
The remaining comparative salary evidence in the record is summarized in the table below, with all 
figures in RMB: 
SOURCE INDUSTRY JOB LOCAL OR AVG. MIN. MAX. 
(YEAR) TITLE NATIONAL SALARY SALARY SALARY 
Kelly Serv. Real Estate Constr. National ------------ 500K 860K 
(2017) Manager 
Kelly Serv. Real Estate Engineering National ------------ 600K 1.lM 
(2017) Director 
Michael Page Property & Corp. RE Beijing 1.150M 800K 1.5M 
(2018)* Construction Senior 
Commercial 
Michael Page Property & Investment Beijing 1.275M 900K 1.65M 
(2018)* Construction Senior 
Investment 
Michael Page Property & Constr. Beijing 650K 500K 800K 
(2018)* Construction Mngmt. 
Landlord Senior 
Michael Page Property& Project Beijing 900K 600K 1.2M 
(2018)* Construction Mngmt. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. 
7 
Landlord Senior 
Hays (2018)# Civil Sr. Project Mainland ------------ 400K 
Construction Manager China 
Hays (2018)# Building Sr. Project Mainland ------------ 600K 
Construction Manager China 
China State Construction Director & National ------------ 684K 
Constr. Engr. Vice 
Corp.@ Presidents 
Shanghai Construction Director & Shanghai ------------ 749K 
Constr. Vice 
Comp. Presidents 
(2017)(GJ 
*Notes that figures are generally total remuneration excluding bonus/incentive schemes 
#Low and high figures described as "typical salary range" 800K 
lM 
lM 
1.52M 
@Salaries are 'Total pretax rewards received from the Company during the report period," but shares 
are listed separately 
We note that while the Petitioner highlights job titles relating to construction management, D I Is two letters describe his position as involving administrative, operational and strategic 
investment duties, and he states that the Petitioner has "participated in the investment and 
construction" of several projects since 2008. We have therefore included data from similar 
positions involving those types of duties in the table above. 
In reviewing the data in the chart, we first note that the data from the Michael Page report 
specifically indicates that the figures provided do not include bonuses and incentives of the 
type listed inl ~ s employment verification letter. Two of the four minimum salaries 
listed from that source exceed the Petitioner's base salary of RMB 600K, and three of the four 
maximum salaries at least double his base salary. In addition, we note that the excerpts 
included in the record from the Kelly Services and Hays reports do not provide information on 
the basis of the figures presented, which is most likely explained elsewhere in those reports. 
Since the figures from those two reports generally fall within the same range as those in the 
Michael Page report, they appear to provide the same type of salary-only data. Therefore, 
based on a comparison of the Petitioner's base salary with those reported in these three salary 
surveys, the Petitioner has not established that his salary is high when compared to those of 
similarly-situated professionals in his field. 
Regarding the executive salaries from the two Chinese construction companies, we note that while the 
maximum "total eetax awards" for most fall below the Petitioner's total average earnings as reported 
in the letter from I the evidence indicates that several of those executives received shares of 
stock in the company as part of their compensation package. Since the value of this stock would have 
figured in the calculation of their total annual remuneration, just as the Petitioner's bonuses do with 
his, the lack of that value figure in the evidence diminishes its usefulness as a basis of comparison. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director and find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7743609 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in epigenetics and oncology, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner completed his graduate studies at thd!Institutes for Biological Sciences. He is 
now a postdoctoral fellow at the I I Clinic'sc===]Research Institute, "conducting research to 
discover novel I I cancer treatments and address fundamental questions concerning I I 
metabolism inl !cancer." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets all three claimed criteria. The Petitioner's involvement in 
peer review constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has written several scholarly articles in the field in professional 
or major trade publications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
2 
The Director also granted the Petitioner's claim to have made original scientific contributions of major 
significance in the field under 8 C E R S 204 5Cb)(3)(v)I The Petitioner asserted that his "major 
contribution is [his] discovery ofl ... and [his] being the first to uncover the 
role orl lin cancer." 
To explain the nature and significance of the Petitioner's work, a professor atl !Medical School 
states: "Epigenetics ... studies heritable changes that do not involve changes in DNA sequence .... 
One of these biochemical changes, I I was long considered a permanent 
modification ... [but can] be reversed by specific enzymes." 
A professor at the University o~.__ __ __.I Medical School states: 
[The Petitioner] determined that the gene I I can regulate other genes by 
modifying particular proteins that bind DNA calledl I Besides that, the gene 
was abnormally abundant inl I cancer, and could sensitize! I cancer cells 
which are otherwise resistant tq I therapy . . . . This discovery 
added significantly to our understanding of how organisms control their own genes to 
guide normal development and physiology. 
The Petitioner asserted that"[ m ]any national and international pharmaceutical companies have started 
developing new anti-cancer treatments based specifically on [the Petitioner's] research." At the time 
of filing, the Petitioner had published 11 journal articles. Most of those articles have been cited by 
other scientists. Two of the Petitioner's articles, published in 2007, accumulated most of those 
citations. Extensive citation of published work can be a hallmark of major significance in the field. 1 
Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner had established the major significance of his 
scientific contributions, as with all the regulatory criteria, satisfaction of this criterion does not 
establish eligibility or create a presumption of sustained acclaim. 
Because the Petitioner met three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14, 8 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/po !icy-memoranda. 
3 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not met this very high standard. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner has had a productive and successful 
career, but has not shown that he has risen to the very top of the field and earned sustained national or 
international acclaim. The Director noted that some of the Petitioner's activities satisfy the wording 
of individual regulatory criteria but, when viewed in the context of the record as a whole, do not 
establish eligibility. 
For example, the Director found that the Petitioner's involvement in peer review amounts to judging 
the work of others, but concluded that such work does not require, reflect, or result in sustained 
acclaim, and is not reserved for the small percentage at the very top of the field. The Petitioner did 
not establish the various journals' requirements for peer reviewers, and the Director stated: "Evidence 
of the petitioner's participation as a judge must be evaluated in terms of these requirements." Peer 
review for journals that select peer reviewers based on subject matter expertise does not provide strong 
support for the petition, because expertise is a considerably lower threshold than acclaim. 
Likewise, practical applications are not the same as acclaim; therefore, evidence that "[g]iant 
biopharmaceutical companies ... are developing~-----~-----~' is not presumptive 
evidence of eligibility for the highly restrictive classification that the Petitioner seeks. This is 
particularly true given the Petitioner's stipulation that "four different groups" independently made the 
same discovery regarding th?,I I gene in 2007, and therefore it is less evident that the 
Petitioner's work, in particular, is responsible for these developments. Also, the Petitioner does not 
establish that it is comparatively rare for pharmaceutical companies to take note of epigenetic research, 
such that their interest in the Petitioner's work is a hallmark of acclaim. 
The Director pursued other lines of evidence in the denial notice, including grant fonding and 
invitations for the Petitioner to participate in scientific conferences. 3 On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not address the Director's conclusions in these areas, focusing instead on citations of his published 
work. 
At the time of filing, two of the Petitioner's papers from 2007 had accumulated more than 200 citations 
each. The Petitioner has placed significant emphasis on this fact throughout the proceeding. On 
appeal, relying on data from a 2016 article in Science, the Petitioner states that "only 5% of senior 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 One organization invited the Petitioner to give a speech at a "Conference on Neurology and Neuromuscular Disorders," 
although the Petitioner claims no experience or expertise in those fields. This discrepancy raises unanswered questions 
about how the organization selects invitees. 
4 
scientists [ with more than 20 years of experience] gained more than 200 citations from a single article 
and only 5% of researchers are senior scientists. So, less than 0.2% of all researchers reached this 
citation rate."4 This argument relies on unproven assumptions. The Petitioner assumes that only 
"senior researchers" have high citation rates, and that "senior scientists" represent the top scientists, 
rather than the most experienced scientists. (The Petitioner's own history contradicts the first 
assumption, as he had less than 20 years of experience at the time of filing.) 
The statute demands "extensive documentation" of recognition. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director took the Petitioner's citation record into consideration, but the Petitioner cannot rely on 
that record (and the Science article) to mathematically place himself at the top of the field without 
other persuasive evidence of sustained acclaim. 
Furthermore, while the Petitioner has written some highly-cited articles, he hasn't shown a consistently 
high citation record indicative of sustained acclaim and recognition that has continued through his 
career. He was a graduate student when his most-cited articles appeared, 12 years before he filed the 
petition. 
The aforementioned professor atl I Medical School calls the Petitioner "one of the pioneers and 
explorers in this area," and asserts that the Petitioner's "work contributes to the foundation of the field 
of epigenetics and is a must-read for every scientist who wishes to pursue studies of epigenetic and 
genetic regulation." The Petitioner contends that the Director "arbitrarily excluded" this letter from 
consideration. 
The Director did not specifically mention and quote from this one letter in the decision, but this does 
not necessarily mean that the Director ignored it or refused to consider it. Letters of this kind lend 
support to the Director's finding that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major 
significance. Nevertheless, the weight of such letters is limited. 
The letter's reference to the Petitioner as "one of the pioneers and explorers" indicates that the 
Petitioner seeks and finds new knowledge in his field, which the Director did not dispute. The Director 
also acknowledged the significance of the Petitioner's scientific contributions. The remaining issue is 
whether the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim as a researcher at the very 
top of the field of epigenetics, and on this point the letter does not suffice to establish eligibility. The 
statute requires "extensive documentation," which the Petitioner has not provided in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner states the impact of his research "can be proven" by a review article in Cell Research 
which mentioned two of the Petitioner's articles. The Petitioner protests that the Director "did not 
consider this as evidence of national and international acclaim, nor as a 'singled out' citation." The 
article in question cited 14 sources, describing each in technical detail. Regarding one of the 
Petitioner's articles, the review article states: 
K9me2I I in the promoter region of the human rDNA gene that results in 
rRNA transcription requires I I H3K9me2 occupancy on rDNA gene by ChIP 
4 The Petitioner does not explain the "less than 0.2%" figure; 5% of 5% is 0.25%. 
5 
assay in control cells displayed two peaks, while H3K9me2 occupancy was strnger I 
but more diffuse in I I knockdown cells. Thus, these data suggest that 
functions as part of a multienzyme complex upstream of rDNA genes. 
The Petitioner maintains that this citation, and others in the record, show that his work was singled out 
for special attention, but he has not established how mentions of this kind translate into sustained 
national or international acclaim. The review article discusses the other source articles in similar 
terms; there is no special emphasis on the Petitioner's work. The article does not indicate that the 
cited articles were chosen based on their importance or prominence. The purpose of the article appears 
to be simply to explain the current state of knowledge regarding a ver: specific area of inquiry. (The 
title of the article is 1 ~ I 
The Petitioner asserts that it is the nature of scientific publications to cite and briefly describe source 
articles, and the record amply bears out this assertion. By way of analogy, the Petitioner cites the 
discovery that "the bacteria Helicobacter Pylori is the pathogen [that causes] chronic gastritis and 
gastric ulcers." The Petitioner states that this Nobel Prize-winning discovery has "become common 
sense in the field," but references to it in the scientific literature might be "concentrated into one 
sentence." The Petitioner acknowledges that his own findings have had less impact, but contends that 
his "case is in a similar situation," because his "findings ... contribute as [sic] fundamental knowledge 
of epigenetics and are broadly acknowledged and implemented." The Petitioner's analogy does not 
succeed, because, from the evidence presented, virtually all citations take the form described, whether 
describing passing observations or Nobel Prize-caliber discoveries. 
The Petitioner's arguments on appeal focus his original contributions of major significance, and we 
do not question that conclusion here; however, the issue is whether recognition of the Petitioner's 
contributions has risen to the level of sustained national or international acclaim that has elevated the 
Petitioner to the very top of his field. 5 The Petitioner has shown that his work, particularly the research 
he published in 2007, is important, but not that it has earned him sustained acclaim. Also, patent 
applications and other materials show that other researchers have relied on the Petitioner's work, but 
such reliance is not intrinsically indicative of acclaim at the very top of the field. The Petitioner's 
work is clearly important and has practical applications, but the Petitioner has not shown that it is rare 
for scientific research to be put to use in these ways. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his ongoing work 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
5 The Petitioner refers to research into~-----~as a "field," but this area of research appears to be much too 
narrow and specialized to constitute a field in its own right. 
G 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner produced some high-impact work 
during his graduate studies, but while his subsequent work has also been productive, the record does 
not indicate a degree of recognition consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. 
We find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6248839 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a testing and commissioning engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner identifies no new facts and submits no affidavits or other documentary 
evidence. 1 (A new, unsworn personal statement from the Petitioner is not an affidavit, and the 
statement mostly repeats a previously submitted statement.) We will dismiss the motion to reopen 
because it does not meet the requirements of such a motion. 
1 The brief on motion includes references to "new evidence," but these references, like much of the brief: are copied from 
the brief the Petitioner previously submitted on appeal. The brief identifies no evidence that was not already in the record 
at the time of the appeal. 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 2 The Petitioner previously claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
In our appellate decision, we agreed with the Director's determination that the Petitioner had not met 
any of the claimed criteria. On motion, the Petitioner does not dispute our finding regarding (iv), 
judging the work of others, but maintains that he satisfied the other five claimed criteria. 
For the reasons explained below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not adequately addressed the stated 
grounds for dismissal of the appeal, and has not established good cause for reconsideration. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's then-employerJ l named him "Most Outstanding Employee of the Year" for 
2008. In our prior decision, we acknowledged this recognition, but we determined that the Petitioner 
did not show that this certificate is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in his field of endeavor. 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats a section of the appellate brief pertaining to the above award. 
Because that brief predated our appellate decision, language from that brief cannot serve to identify 
errors of law or fact in the appellate decision. 
Previously submitted information indicates that l lhas partnered with industry experts on major 
infrastructure projects" around the world. International activity by the company, however, does not 
establish that a prize that is only available tol 11>:mployees is, itself, internationally recognized. 3 
2 Apart rrom the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Petitioner asserts that he will continue to work in the 
area of extraordinary ability, as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. This was not a basis for dismissal ofthe 
appeal, and therefore the Petitioner does not establish enor by raising the issue on motion. 
3 When evaluating a prize or award, we may take into consideration any limitations on competitors (an award limited to 
competitors rrom a single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). See USCTS 
Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to 
the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/ 
legal-resources/po !icy-memoranda. 
3 
The language of the criterion requires national or international recognition of the prize or award, as 
distinct from the reputation or recognition of the awarding entity. 
The Petitioner has not shown that we erred in determining that he did not satisfy this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that his membership in the Philippine Society of Mechanical Engineers (PSME) 
meets the requirements of this criterion. In our appellate decision, we quoted PSME's own website, 
which indicated that membership was open to all "professional mechanical engineers, mechanical 
engineers, and certified plant mechanics" who registered and paid the required fees. We also found 
that "the Petitioner did not establish that membership is judged by recognized national or international 
experts." 
On motion, as above, the Petitioner repeats the language from the appellate brief: and does not address 
the information we cited in our appellate decision. The Petitioner has not shown that we erred in our 
appellate decision. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On motion, the Petitioner again uses language copied from his appellate brief. In that brief, he asserts 
that he satisfied this criterion, but does not identify any specific contributions or explain their 
significance. Instead, the Petitioner states that the necessary information is in "[ n ]umerous reference 
letters" in the record. 
We previously addressed and quoted from those reference letters in our appellate decision. We stated: 
"While the letters applaud the Petitioner's personal and job abilities, they do not identify original 
contributions that he has made to the field, nor do they explain how his contributions have been of 
major significance." 
On motion, the Petitioner does not address or acknowledge our discussion of the letters, and therefore 
does not reveal any errors in that discussion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical rolefor organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner stated that letters from his previous employers established that his "role ... 
was of significantly greater importance than that of the numerous other employees in the same field." 
After examining these letters, we concluded: "Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's 
employment, they do not demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role for any of the 
4 
companies." We provided quotations to support that conclusion. We also noted that "the letters do 
not contain information demonstrating that [the companies] have a distinguished reputation." 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats language from the appellate brief, which does not address our 
findings. The Petitioner also adds a new sentence: "Several recommenders also comment and 
supported the Petitioner's development and leading and critical role in their organizations." This is a 
general statement that summarizes prior claims and does not identify any specific error oflaw or policy 
in our prior appellate decision. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that we should accept "his previously submitted Confirmation Letter 
of Salary from petitioner's supervisor." We identified deficiencies in this letter, and concluded that the 
Petitioner "did not provide comparative wage data of other testing engineers" or otherwise submit 
documentary evidence that would allow a meaningful comparison of his remuneration to that of others in 
the same field. 
On motion, rather than address the identified deficiencies in the letter, the Petitioner repeats the section 
of his appellate brief that asked us to take that same letter into consideration. Repetition of prior assertions 
does not rebut our responses to those assertions. Repeating or restating the arguments from the appellate 
brief: without addressing or acknowledging the findings we have already made about those arguments, 
cannot form a basis for reconsideration of our appellate decision. The motion does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider, and will be dismissed for that reason. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6195673 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner's 
evidence met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must 
satisfy at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's failed to conduct a thorough review of the evidence. 
She maintains that she meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise qualified 
for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actress who has appeared in theatrical, film, television, and commercial projects. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of these ten criteria, relating to her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director erred in his assessment of evidence submitted with respect to several other 
regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Upon review, we agree with this assertion, as the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the 
evidence submitted in support of the petition with respect to certain criteria, and does not appear to 
acknowledge the evidence the Petitioner submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE). An 
officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
As noted, the Director determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to satisfy the 
criterion relating to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her field, consistent with 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record contains a letter from~----~president ofthel I I ~ who states: "We invited [the Petitioner] to be a judge of the acting 
2 
category for thel IFilm Festival, which she did in 2009, 2010, and 2011." The Petitioner provided 
no additional evidence relating to this criterion, and we disagree with the Director's determination that I I letter alone sufficiently establishes 1er parti~ipation as a judge. The record does not 
contain any supporting documentation related to the ilm Festival, such as evidence that acting 
awards were given in the years 2009 through 2011. 1 
The Petitioner also claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires that she 
provide evidence of her receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in her field of endeavor. In addressing this criterion in the denial decision, the Director 
states that the record "contains no probative evidence that you were named a recipient in any category 
for excellence in the field of endeavor"; mentions that the Petitioner submitted documents from the 
Internet Movie Database (IMDb) and generally dismisses such evidence as unreliable; and states 
"[y]ou submitted digital, self-made copies of documentary evidence that can be reduced or altered, 
but such documentation is inadmissible." The language in the Director's decision was copied almost 
verbatim from the RFE, and did not address the evidence or the lengthy letter that accompanied the 
Petitioner's RFE response, four pages of which were devoted to addressing how the evidence 
submitted was sufficient to satisfy the lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
criterion. 
As noted by the Petitioner, the majority of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion was not 
derived from IMDb. Further, the Petitioner argues that she did not submit digitally altered copies of 
evidence and noted that it is unclear what evidence was deemed inadmissible. We agree with the 
Petitioner that neither the RFE nor the decision provided an explanation as to why her evidence failed 
to satisfy this criterion; the Director's general finding that the evidence was either unreliable or 
inadmissible was not adequate. We will remand this matter to the Director so that he can folly address 
and analyze all of the evidence and arguments relating to the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We farther note that the Director declined to review the evidence the Petitioner submitted to satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which relates to the display of the individual's work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. As with the awards criterion, the Director's discussion of this 
criterion in the denial decision was copied verbatim from the RFE with no additional analysis of the 
evidence and arguments submitted in the Petitioner's subsequent response to the RFE. 
The Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." We disagree with the 
Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only 
to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own 
work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 
Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's 
Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 9-10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
1 We note that the c=]Film Festivals archived website indicates that the 2010 festival's award categories were limited 
to Best Movie, Best Screenplay, Audience Favorite Award, and Italian-American Heritage Award. See website of The 
c=]Film Festival, http://www.oFilmFest.com (accessed on Feb. 13, 2020). 
3 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that officers should use the 
common dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
As certain exhibitions or showcases featuring performing artists meet the plain language of this 
regulation, the Director should not have summarily disregarded the Petitioner's evidence. For 
example, the Petitioner provided evidence that she has starred in stage productions of several plays 
and held lead roles in films screened at film festivals. The Director also noted that the Petitioner 
"submitted evidence which appears self-manufactured" and determined that such evidence is not 
probative, but did not identify the evidence he was referring to. As this matter will be remanded, the 
Director should re-examine the evidence submitted to satisfy the display criterion and make a new 
determination that takes into account this discussion. 
Finally, the Director's decision addresses the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires 
the Petitioner to submit evidence that she has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director's analysis consisted solely of "boilerplate language that does not in any way discuss [her] 
specific leading roles" or "relate to the type of work [she] performs." We agree with the Petitioner 
that the limited one paragraph analysis of this criterion provided contains no specific references to the 
evidence or arguments she presented with the petition or in response to the RFE, and the Director's 
decision was deficient in this regard. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria after re-examining the 
evidence, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether she 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim 
and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596F.3dat 1119-20.2 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7707471 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a molecular diagnostics company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that while the Beneficiary met four of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, the record did not establish that she has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. On appeal, we withdrew 
the previous findings regarding two of the criteria granted by the Director, and thus did not conduct a 
final merits analysis of the Beneficiary 's acclaim and standing in her field. The Petitioner now asserts 
in its motion to reconsider that we did not properly consider all of the evidence in the record. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to 
reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and 
that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the 
decision. We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the 
requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as an in vitro diagnostic (IVD) assay development 
senior scientist. We note that on appeal, the Petitioner indicated that her field of expertise is molecular 
diagnostics , not molecular and cellular embryology as initially indicated . 
We will first consider the Petitioner's arguments concerning the Beneficiary's salary and whether it 
can be considered as "high" under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h (3 (ix . In its motion brief, the 
Petitioner asserts that we disregarded the expert o inion letter from an associate 
professor at the University of.__ ____ ___. .__ _______ _,_ompares the Beneficiary's annual 
salary of $108,000, as verified by her 2017 Form W-2, to the median wage for cellular and molecular 
biologists as found in the O*Net online database, which he states to be $76,690. However, his 
comparison does not take into account local variances in salary, relying upon the less accurate national 
median rather than local wage data for the area in which the Beneficiary is employed. In addition, a 
comparison to the median salary alone does not provide a complete set of information to which the 
Beneficiary's salary may be compared. Therefore, the professor's letter does not establish that the 
Beneficiary's salary can be considered to be high in relation to similarly situated scientists in her field. 1 
The Petitioner further asserts that we erred in comparing the Beneficiary's salary to the senior scientist 
wages from the SalaryList website which it submitted in its initial filing, arguing that it provided the 
"most relevant data" for the molecular and cellular biologist position as described above. However, 
the Petitioner did not distinguish between the different salary survey evidence when it was initially 
submitted, nor does it explain how we erred in considering all of the evidence in the record. While 
we agree with the Petitioner's argument that it need not establish that the Beneficiary's wages are the 
highest for her position, and that the SalaryList data it submitted as evidence is not as relevant as the 
O*N et data as it is specific neither to field nor location, this evidence at the least suggests that the 
Beneficiary's salary is not high relative to that of others in her field. we further note that the rage I 
data from the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center (FLCDC) for biological scientists in the I I area, which was also submitted by the Petitioner and put the prevailing wage for "Level 4" or 
fully competent employees at $92,955 per year, also indicates that the Beneficiary's salary is above 
average but not high as required by the regulation. 2 
In its motion brief: the Petitioner also addresses our decision to withdraw the Director's previous 
finding regarding the Beneficiary's original scientific contributions of major significance per 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). It notes that in our previous decision, we indicated that because evidence 
in the form of independent clinical studies, press releases and promotional material from the 
Beneficiary's former employer, I I had been used to establish her 
critical role for that company under a different evidentiary criteria, we would not consider it in support 
of her claim to the contributions criterion. The Petitioner asserts that "It is illogical to prohibit 
evidence from establishing two different criteria when there is significant overlap between EB­
! criteria in a business context." 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. We further note that that data 
is available from the same website from whichl !obtained his data. 
2 We note that unlike the O*Net data referenced byl l the FLCDC data provides a broader range of 
salaries at different skill levels, and thus a more accurate basis for comparison. 
2 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner that evidence may be considered in support of more than 
one criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 3 The marketing evidence referred to shows that the 
product which the Beneficiary contributed to developing, the I I Panel, is an important 
product for the company, and the independent studies submitted verify its value in clinical testing. 
However, as we noted in our previous decision, although the Beneficiary's contribution has 
undoubtedly made a financial impact for her former employer, the evidence does not establish an 
impact on the overall field of molecular diagnostics. 
The Petitioner asserts on motion that we "should not have required evidence of other companies using 
[the Beneficiary's] contributions to establish an "impact" in the field." Althorgh le noted that a letter 
from I I senior director for research and development at included a claim of 
"wide implementation" of the I O I Panel on which she did not elaborate, we did not 
require evidence of other companies' use of the product. We found that the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary's work had an impact beyond her former employer, and thus that her contribution 
was of major significance to the broader field of molecular diagnostics, but we did not require specific 
evidence or utilize novel evidentiary requirements as the Petitioner suggests. 4 
The Petitioner also asserts that in our previous decision, we disregarded evidence of the Beneficiary's 
work while at the University! I which led to a patent that was licensed to a Canadian company 
that develops I I diagnostic devices. It argues that the licensing of this technology is sufficient 
to demonstrate its major significance, and that confidential sales figures should not be required. Upon 
review, our previous decision did not improperly dictate the type of evidence required to establish the 
major significance of the Beneficiary's original contribution, and we note that it included extensive 
analysis of the evidence submitted in relation to this work. For instance, we noted that in his letter, I I speculated on the potential influence of the Petitioner's I I method, stating 
that it could assist in the more rapid and accurate diagnosis of I I but did not state that such an 
impact to the field had already occurred. We also note that the letter from 
Vice President of Research & Development forl l the company to,__w_h_i-ch-th_e_p_a-te_n_t_w_a_,s 
licensed, writes in his letter that "this technology is an important lever tol I' and that it 
"contributes to makingl I extremely competitive in the field of.__ _______ _,' but 
similarly does not suggest or provide information to support a finding that the introduction of this 
technology has been of major significance in the wider field of molecular diagnostics. 
Since the Petitioner has not established that our decision to reverse the Director regarding the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix) was incorrect, it has only satisfied the requirements of two of the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria. We therefore need not conduct a final merits determination to 
consider whether the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim or is one of the small 
percentage at the top of her field. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 USCIS may not utilize novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 758 (9th Cir.2008). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that our decision was based on 
an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19609635 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a photographer who has displayed his work at exhibits in Venezuela, France, and the 
United States. He states that he wishes to continue to work as a photographer in the United States, 
and intends to operate a photo consulting business in Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, the display of his work at artistic exhibitions, and his service as a judge of the 
work of other photographers. However, the Director then concluded that the totality of the evidence 
did not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of photographers at the top of the 
field, and thus was not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence in the 
record in making his determination. After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion regarding the Petitioner's satisfaction of three of the evidentiary criteria, and will therefore 
tum to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
2 
As noted above, the Petitioner submitted evidence that his photographs have been displayed at several 
artistic exhibitions. The record shows that his work has been shown at several solo and group 
exhibitions in Venezuela, including the I Exhibition at the I I Gallery in in 
2014. His work has continued to be displayed in the United States at several exhibitions inl I 
Florida, such asl I's show in 2015 and the American Society of Media 
Photographers (ASMP) juried exhibition in 2016. The record also demonstrates that his work has 
been displayed by the French Alliance Foundation in Paris. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that several of these exhibitions included photographs from only the 
top artists in the field, which he asserts places him among that group. For instance, he states that the I I exhibition, which has displayed his work on multiple occasions, "is arguably the most 
important art show in the United States." The Petitioner contends that the exhibiting galleries at the 
exhibition are among the world's most respected art dealers, and thus his inclusion at this event 
evidences his stature as a leading photographer and his sustained acclaim. He also highlights the 
showcasing of his work at the ASMP's juried exhibition in 2016. According to the Petitioner, ASMP 
is "is a premier trade association for the world's most respected photographers." However, we note 
that the record does not include information about these exhibitions and organizations from 
independent sources, and thus lacks evidence to show that they are considered to be prestigious by the 
international photography community. This is also the case with the French Alliance Foundation and 
some of the other U.S. and Venezuelan exhibitions in which the Petitioner participated. We further 
note that the record does not include evidence of media attention or discussion of his work beyond 
that which has already been discussed. As constituted, the record lacks sufficient evidence to establish 
that the inclusion of his work in these exhibitions over several years is indicative of him being among 
the small percentage of photographers at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner also received several awards for his work. At the 2013 I international 
photo competition, the Petitioner was the winner in the I I subdivision, and this accolade 
permitted him to participate in the international competition held in where he was one of 19 
finalists selected from artists representing more than 100 cities worldwide. While we acknowledge 
that the Petitioner won thd I subdivision of the competition, the number of awards given at the 
final event and the fact that the award received by the Petitioner is not the top award at the event 
indicates that he is not one of the small percentage of photographers at the top of his field on a national 
or international scale.1 Although the Petitioner's receipt of the local I I award demonstrates 
some level of recognition, he did not receive the highest award at this event, and the record does not 
include evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he was one of the I !contestants" in a 2013 
photography contest held by the Metropolitan Mayor's Officel I entitled ______ 
According to an article published in El Universal, the competition was intended to provide 
photographers with an opportunity to show their view of the city from their camera's point of view. 
Although the article indicated that the winners were invited to organize a photo content for the 
anniversary of I there is little to no information regarding the details of the contest, such as the 
number of participants in the contest, whether it was open to both professional and amateur 
1 The record reflect that the "top winner" was awarded a one-week stay in with a solo exhibition at the __ 
Gallery, and the top five photographers, including the "top winner," received a one-year magazine subscription. 
3 
photographers, or the criteria used in selecting the winners. It is unclear whether the winners were 
chosen based upon an independent evaluation of the quality or artistic value of the candidate's work, 
or simply for participating. We cannot conclude that being one of 12 winners of this local contest 
would automatically earn a professional photographer sustained national acclaim and a place among 
the small percentage at the top of the field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered material from several organizations relating to him 
and his work. Although two notable articles covered him and discussed his work, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international 
acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner served as a judge for various photo exhibitions and 
contests. After his success in thel I competition, the Petitioner was selected to serve 
as a juror for the 2013 _______ _.competition hosted by the French Alliance Foundation 
inl I According to a letter from the organization's general director, the Petitioner was selected 
as a juror for this event based on his receipt of thel I subdivision award the previous ear. The 
Petitioner also submitted documentation demonstrating that he served as a juror for the 
I I Show, hosted by Curator's Voice Art Projects (CVAP) inl I in ________ 
2017. The Petitioner submitted two letters from the organization's director thanking the Petitioner for 
his service and expertise, as well as an excerpt from CVAP's website which provided a brief overview 
of the organization. This evidence shows that the Petitioner has achieved some level of recognition 
from the French Alliance Foundation and CVAP. However, it does not establish that these exhibitions 
are prestigious or that selection as a juror for these exhibitions is reserved for those photographers at 
the top of the field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence 
that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in his field, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
As noted above, in order to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, the Petitioner 
must show that he has been the subject of sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the top of his field, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The Petitioner received an award for his 
photographs in the subdivision of I I in 2012 and was a finalist in the 
international portion of that competition shortly thereafter. The record also demonstrates that he was I !winners in a local competition the following year. However, while these awards 
indicate he was receiving acclaim for this work at a national level, it does not show that these awards 
were considered to be prestigious, or that his receipt of them placed him among top photographers. 
The Petitioner's participation as a judge of other photographer's work at three exhibitions between 
2013 and 201 7 demonstrates that his expertise as a photographer had begun to be recognized. 
Thereafter, the attention given to his artistic displays, and in particular to the display of the Petitioner's 
collections at thel I exhibitions, illustrates a growing level of appreciation and notice of his 
work in the field of photography, and the inclusion of his work at these exhibitions is a significant 
achievement and reflects his success in his field. However, the evidence does not establish, for 
example, that the many photographs exhibited at each exhibition are the work of nationally or 
internationally acclaimed artists at the top of their field, or that all artists whose work is included 
gamer such acclaim. The record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing him from others 
4 
in the field and does not demonstrate that his achievements are at a level that places him among the 
small percentage at the top of the field. Nor does the evidence establish that he has enjoyed sustained 
acclaim at the national or international level, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, 
the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is 
adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 
immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data 
Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. 
Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the 
office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court 
of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition 
on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, 
although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his standing among his peers in the field of 
photography, it does not establish that he is yet one of that small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2024 In Re: 30081974 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a public relations (PR) director who seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had demonstrated international recognition through a one-time 
achievement nor shown that she satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 1 
We dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a legal brief and a copy of our prior decision dismissing the appeal. 
In the legal brief submitted on motion, the Petitioner primarily focuses on two issues that we 
previously reserved in our decision and only summarily addresses the issues that served as grounds 
for our dismissal of the appeal. The Petitioner does not offer new facts to be considered in support of 
this motion. The Petitioner therefore has not shown a proper cause for reopening . 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
1 The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the claimed evidentiary criteria. 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision in which we addressed the 
Petitioner's claim that she met at least at least three out of ten criteria. 2 We noted that the Petitioner 
originally claimed to have satisfied the following six criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
We noted, however, that on appeal the Petitioner claimed eligibility on the basis of five criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (v), (viii), and (ix). Also, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), she 
claimed that she has submitted evidence that is comparable to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that she meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) or that she provided evidence comparable to that criterion. We then 
concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she met the three criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (ix). 
As a result of our adverse determinations regarding the above listed criteria, we declined to address 
the remainder of the Petitioner's claim regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), 
which require evidence of the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance and evidence 
of her leading or critical roles in organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation, 
respectively. 
On motion, the Petitioner relies primarily on the two reserved criteria -original contributions and 
leading or critical role -and only summarily addresses the criteria that served as the basis for our 
dismissal of the appeal. The Petitioner claims that she provided "overwhelming evidence" of her 
"significant and original contributions to the field" by showing that she meets six criteria "where the 
2 The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top 
ofthe field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi­
part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through 
a one-time achievement that is. a major, internationally recognized award. Ifthat petitioner does not submit this evidence. 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualitying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
2 
minimum requirements are merely to pass muster under three."3 Specifically, the Petitioner states the 
following regarding the previously claimed criteria: 
[The Petitioner]'s extensive PR work with major, distinguished national and 
international organizations in Russia in leading and critical roles were considered 
having passed muster. In addition, [the Petitioner] has been elected as a member after 
rigorous selection criteria to professional organization [sic] that is limited to the most 
elite in the field. Other revered experts in the Public Relations field predicate selections 
to the post on a review of her membership criteria. Her expertise and extraordinary 
work on distinguished PR projects have also resulted in several PR industry awards. 
Her outstanding work has been covered by major media outlets. Cumulatively, her 
work in the PR field has also resulted in several original contributions to the field and 
her novel PR methods have been used by university professors . . . . Finally, her high 
salary in Russia indicates that she is indeed an extraordinary PR professional who has 
substantially contributed to her field of endeavor. 
In sum, the Petitioner restates her claim regarding the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), 
(iii), (v), (viii), and (ix), but she does not offer a cogent argument to demonstrate that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in our prior decision. See Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
Accordingly, although the Petitioner disagrees with our decision dismissing the appeal, she offers no 
new facts that warrant a reopening of this proceeding, nor does she establish that our prior decision 
was incorrect as a matter oflaw or policy. Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this motion 
meets the requirements for a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) or the requirements of a 
motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), we will dismiss the combined motion. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 As noted, the Petitioner altered her original claim on appeal, basing her eligibility on the five criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), (v). (viii). and (ix) and, and further claiming that she submitted evidence that is comparable to the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 5, 2024 In Re: 30001624 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television and film producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the Beneficiary of an approved 
0-1 B petition. Although USC IS has approved at least one O-lB nonimmigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner, this prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 B category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submitted a Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion; a copy of the 
Director's decision; and material originally included with her petition. The Petitioner's brief presents 
explanations previously submitted for why the record establishes her eligibility and states that the 
Director's "denial of her employment-based immigrant visa petition should be reconsidered." An 
appeal must specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
unfavorable decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). The Petitioner does not specifically contest the 
Director's decision and requests only that the evidence of record be "reconsidered." While the 
Petitioner reiterates previous claims of eligibility, she does not point to any legal or factual error in the 
decision. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appe11ate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). The Director provided a detailed analysis of evidence 
submitted for each of the claimed criteria and discussed how the evidence did not sufficiently 
demonstrate that the Petitioner met each criterion. 
For example, while the record showed the Petitioner received awards, the Director determined, in part, 
that the record did not include documentation demonstrating that the awards were nationally or 
internationally recognized; the Director explained that national and international recognition comes 
through awareness and accolades conferred by those in the field and that recognition should be evident 
though specific means, such as through media coverage. 
As another example, the Director pointed out that, while the record showed the Petitioner's 
membership with an association in her field, the documentation submitted as evidence ofmembership 
requirements did not meet the plain language of the criterion; the Director listed the requirements and 
explained that they do not stipulate that members, including the Petitioner, obtained membership based 
on their outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
As a final example, the Petitioner reviewed screenshots and articles from several websites that the 
Petitioner claimed were evidence of published material about her in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. The Director explained that the record did not include 
documentation showing that these websites constituted any form of media listed in the criterion. The 
Director also noted that several documents did not include certified English language translations and, 
therefore, would not be considered. 
The Director thoroughly analyzed the Petitioner's evidence and arguments and provided her with a 
compete decision reaching the correct conclusion. On appeal, as stated above, the Petitioner does not 
contest the Director's decision and reiterates the reasons she believes she meets the eligibility 
requirements for all of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner does not provide 
sufficient evidence to overcome the Director's conclusions. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7745591 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 6, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a gourmet baker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, along with her sister, operates .__ ______ _.Cafe based iJ 
O I Illinois. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner is the head baker of the cafe, which specializes in I • I 
cakes,~ I donut-style dessert. The Petitioner has been employed as the cafe's secretary and 
baker since 2015. She is also co-founder, with her sister, of the online candy company I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to leading roles in 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. We agree that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
evidence to establish that she served in a leading role for I 1 I as well as evidence 
to establish that this business enjoys a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The description 
of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of 
the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.2 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she satisfied thisl criterion basedl on evidence that her employer, I I Cafe, was recognized as the Best ~----~ in Illinois in an article published 
by buzzfeed.com inl I ?016. However, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not establish 
that she herself: as opposed to her employer, received this recognition. The Petitioner's employer, I I Cafe, was recognized in the article, which contains a photograph and a favorable 
~view of the cafe'sl lcakes. In addition, the record does not establish that I I 
L___J Cafe's recognition by buzzfeed.com is a "nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award" as required by the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In response to 
the Director's request for evidence such as a photograph of the award or copy of the award certificate, 
the Petitioner asserted that "[t]he award certificate is the Buzzfeed article itself:" but she did not 
provide evidence that she received an award or prize from buzzfeed.com. Further, the Director 
determined that the record lacked evidence demonstrating the criteria used in recognizing the 
Petitioner's employer. Although the Petitioner provided evidence that BuzzFeed recognized the 
Petitioner's employer based on Yelp ratings "for ever~ I business on Yelp," the record does 
not demonstrate the national or international significance of that recognition. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is sought. Such evidence shall include the 
title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record contains news articles about the Petitioner's baked goods and the recognitio~ I I l Cafe received from Buzzfeed in 2016 as the best I I in Illinois, from websites such 
as ~----------~ www.abc7chicago.com, www.nbcchicago.com, 
www.dailyherald.com, www.patch.com, and www.chicagoparent.com. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the record must demonstrate published material about the Petitioner in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 Upon 
review, the evidence does not demonstrate that the publications qualify as major media. 
The Petitioner offered printouts from Similar Web regarding the aforementioned publications' 
rankings and "traffic overview." Similar Web reflects that the websites range from a global ranking 
of 3,832 to 342,329; a country ranking of 649 to 122,706; and total visits of 363,525 to 122,300,000. 
The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing 
statistics or explain how such information elevates them to major media relative to other publications. 
Regarding the website~----------~' the Petitioner also submitted a screenshot from 
the publication's website, describing it as a Polish-language daily publication of the Chicago 
metropolitan area with 113,699 monthly unique visitors, but it did not provide evidence showing how 
this Internet viewership compares to other publications. In reference to NBC Chicago, the Petitioner 
also submitted an article from www.blog.feedspot.com listing NBC Chicago as number 57 in a list of 
"Top 100 USA News Websites," however, as there is no author identified the article does not satisfy 
all elements of this criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Further] the record contains an advertisement for the Petitioner's online candy company! I I from www.abc7chicago.com, however the Petitioner has not demonstrated that "published 
material" as referenced in the regulation includes this type of promotional material. 4 
In light of the above, the Petitioner did not show that she fulfills the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on her appearance in a four-minute segment 
from the weekly local food magazine program Chicago's Best. The record contains photographs and 
a transcript of the segment, titled I I' showing the Petitioner, her sister, 
and the program host baking and eatingl ~akes at I I Cafe. The record also 
indicates that the segment was posted on the Chicago's Best blog, along with the cafe's address, 
contact information, and the legend, l t 
The language of this criterion specifically requires display of the Petitioner's work at "artistic 
exhibitions or showcases" ( emphasis added). The Petitioner did not submit sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that conducting a baking demonstration at her cafe for the food magazine 
program Chicago's Best equates to displaying her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The 
Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that the program on which her work was displayed 
can be considered "artistic" in nature, 5 as opposed to commercial media. As such, she has not 
established that this evidence meets this criterion. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, 
the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is 
adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 
immigrant petitions are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., 
Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 
48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 
282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
4 Id. (providing that marketing materials created for the purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her 
services are not generally considered to be published material about the petitioner). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9-10. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), she does not meet any additional criteria on appeal regarding nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, published material, and artistic display. While she argues and 
submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to high salary or other remuneration 
at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 6 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner's work as a gourmet baker has brought praise for her creativity, experience, 
and technical skill, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675707 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 6, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the coordinator of the English language pathways at I I Community 
Collegel I awarded the Petitioner with its excellence in teaching award in 2022, and she 
was nominated for thel !Community College System's excellence in teaching award. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (vi) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the criterion of judging the work of others in the same or 
allied field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the criterion met by the Petitioner. And 
on appeal, we conclude that record also demonstrates the Petitioner's authorship of numerous 
scholarly articles in the education field. The Petitioner has therefore satisfied two criteria and must 
satisfy one more to prevail. As discussed below, we conclude she has not. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
2 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. 
( citing to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The 
Petitioner's do not. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I Director of English for Academic Purposes and 
Continuing Education of Non-Native English Speakers atl lwho stated the Petitioner led a leading 
and critical role. I !confirmed the Petitioner commenced employment atl lin 2018 and 
within two years her "leadership abilities stood out" and she was promoted to the position of Coordinator 
of English Language Pathways. In this position, the Petitioner is "in charge of all of the English 
continuing education classes as it relates to curriculum development, judging teacher's learning 
management sites, their completion of tasks, and their classroom management." I I explained 
that the Petitioner is at a "top position within the department." She also stated the Petitioner is the only 
person in the college that has a doctorate in teaching English to speakers of other languages and her 
"expertise in this field is of eminent value." I _further indicated that due to the Petitioner's 
"innovations within the curriculum, choice of courses, and individual outreach to students," enrollment 
into her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year. I I explained that higher 
enrollment in the program is directly connected to program funding. Further, she noted the Petitioner's 
judgement and training led to a higher caliber of teachers for that department. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends she plays a leading and critical role at las noted in the letter from 
and by her achievement of earning the award of excellence in teaching from I Although 
confirms the importance of the Petitioner's contributions as the coordinator of English language pa pathways at she does not establish that she performed a leading or critical role for 
as a whole, such as by showing she influenced its overall reputation or status, or was 
responsible for the success of the organization. Though I I stated that due to the Petitioner's 
efforts, enrollment in her program increased by 30 percent from the prior year, it is not clear from the 
record that the Petitioner's actions and contributions in fact led to the increase. Increase in enrollment 
could be caused by several different factors, and without more information it is impossible to correlate 
the increase to the Petitioner's actions and not some other factor such as changes in the pandemic and 
students returning to campuses, or any other possible factors. While the Petitioner worked on projects 
to enhance I I program, and thereby supported its mission, she did not provide sufficient 
documentary evidence to show that her duties and responsibilities as a coordinator of the English 
language pathways were critical to the greater organization. The Petitioner did not sufficiently explain 
or demonstrate that her role as a coordinator for one program out of several departments in a college 
constitutes a critical or leading role for the overall organization. 
3 
___ does not describe with sufficient detail how the Petitioner played a critical role or leading 
role in the successes enjoyed of1 I Although I I stated that the Petitioner's innovations 
within the curriculum and choice of courses contributed to higher enrollment and fonding for the 
program, she did not provide specific examples. Further, while she stated the Petitioner used her 
expertise to obtain a higher caliber of teachers, these accolades do not demonstrate that her position 
amounts to a leading or critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that benefits their 
employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not established that her work for the college was 
critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner further contends thatl I is a distinguished institution of prominence and 
eminency in the State of North Carolina. As the Petitioner has not established that she performed in a 
critical or leading role for I !however, further analysis of the college's reputation serves no 
meaningful purpose. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the petitioner performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The 
letter considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her field in 
which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. The second 
area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
4 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends she qualifies for this criterion based on two scholarly articles she wrote that 
were published in books. The books were published by 
press, imprint of the higher colleges of technology. The Director found that she had not established 
that her articles were published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states her previously-submitted evidence demonstrates her eligibility for this 
criterion. The record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's articles, which indicate that they are 
scholarly in nature. We therefore find that the Beneficiary published her articles in a professional 
publication and withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. However, because the Petitioner only 
met two of the required three evidentiary criteria, she does not overcome the denial decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19588723 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 07, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer athlete and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification 
through evidence of a one time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or satisfying 
at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner submits a 
brief and additional evidence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a soccer athlete and youth soccer coach who states that he intends to work in this area 
in the United States. 1 He holds educational and coaching credentials from the United Kingdom and 
United States, and has worked as a youth soccer coach in both countries. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he applied for classification in the E21 category as either a 
member of the professions holding an advanced degree, or as a noncitizen of exceptional ability, and 
that he also requested a national interest waiver (NIW) of the labor certification requirement. He 
therefore asserts that the Director adjudicated his petition as seeking classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability in error. 
Upon review of the petition, the Petitioner clearly marked box 1.a in Part 2 of Form I-140, indicating 
that the petition was filed for a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. He did not mark box l .h, which 
would have indicated that he was applying for an NIW as a member of the professions holding an 
advanced degree or a noncitizen of exceptional ability. A petitioner may not make material changes 
to a petition that has already been filed to make an apparently deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. See Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). In addition, as the 
Director issued his decision based upon the Petitioner's request for classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability, our review of his decision is limited to that classification.2 
1 The Petitioner also states on appeal that in the alternative he would like to work in the United States in the field of 
psychology. As he has not previously made this claim or submitted evidence in support of it, we will not consider it on 
appeal. 
2 We further note that even ifwe were to consider the Petitioner's eligibility for the E21 classification rather than for the 
classification he requested, at no point in these proceedings has he described or established how the evidence in the record 
shows that he qualifies as either a member of the professions holding an advanced degree, or as a noncitizen of exceptional 
ability by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(ii) and possessing a degree of 
expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered in sciences, arts or business. He has further not described or 
established his eligibility for an NIW under the three prongs of the framework set forth in Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N 
Dec. 884 (AAO 2016 ). As noted above, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. If the 
Petitioner wishes to request an NIW under the E2 l classification, he may file a new petition. 
2 
We further note that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence on appeal, including additional 
reference letters and a copy his bachelor's degree diploma. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). As such, we will 
not consider this evidence in our decision. 
The Petitioner's brief also incorporates text that he states was obtained from various websites, and 
includes statements about each of the previously submitted documents. Many of these statements are 
conclusory in nature and repeat the language of the evidentiary criteria, and in some cases borrow 
language from several criteria in the same sentence. While we will give these statements due 
consideration, as stated above the INA requires that recognition of achievement in a petitioner's field 
be established through "extensive documentation." Further, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the following documentation serves as evidence of his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award: 
• Certificates for Youth Award Modules 1, 2 and 3 from The Football Association (FA), as well 
as completion of The FA Youth Award training program in 2013; and 
• Certificate for completion of the FA B Coaching License (UEF AB Diploma) training program. 
In his brief, the Petitioner refers to text "sourced by Wikipedia & www.thefa.com" and states that the 
FA is a major internationally recognized organization. While we will take administrative notice of the 
FA' s reputation and membership in international soccer organizations, it is the recognition of the 
award itself which must be established. 
We initially note that according to the record, as well as information from the FA' s website, the Youth 
Award training program prepares individuals to coach youth soccer at the elite level. Generally, 
certifications such as these which represent completion of a training program are not considered to be 
awards, and the Petitioner has not provided documentation showing that his receipt of these 
certifications should be construed as one-time achievements. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
3 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
Here, while the Petitioner appears to interpret "recognition" in terms of whether other soccer 
organizations accept these as qualifying youth coaching credentials, the examples discussed above, 
and the plain language of the statute, show that this is not the appropriate standard. Although neither 
the statute nor the regulations define "one-time achievement," the fact that the alternative means of 
meeting the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification necessitates meeting three of the ten 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), one of which relates to "lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards," puts this requirement into proper perspective. The record lacks documentation 
to show that these certificates, considered either individually or as a whole, evidence recognition of 
the Petitioner's national or international recognition as a soccer player and coach to the extent that no 
further evidence is needed to meet the classification's initial evidence requirement. 
The Petitioner claims on appeal that in order to receive these certificates, prospective coaches must 
"show that they are one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of that field of endeavour 
and demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim ... " However, he does not submit 
documentary evidence of the requirements for entry into or completion of this training, or evidence 
that others who completed this training were judged to be at the top of the field of soccer coaching at 
the time. In addition, as previously noted, simply repeating the language of the statute and regulations 
is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof. 
As the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to establish that his coaching credentials are 
major, internationally recognized awards, we will tum to whether, in the alternative, he meets three of 
the evidentiary criteria. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to five of these criteria. 3 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
he has not met the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification by meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
3 On appeal, the Petitioner did not renew his claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) regarding original 
contributions of major significance to the field. 
4 
In order to meet this criteria, a noncitizen must show that they are a member in an association in their 
field, that this association requires outstanding achievements of their members, and that this 
requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner claims this 
criterion on the basis of the coach training certificates awarded by the FA, which are also recognized 
by the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA). He refers to the Unique FA Number (FAN) 
included on all four of the certificates as evidence of his membership in the FA. The Petitioner asserts 
that in order to receive the certification, and thus membership in the FA, he was required "to attend 
various trainings and showcases held by and judged by recognized national or international experts 
in their disciplines or fields." However, we note that the FAN was assigned, at the latest, upon 
completion of the first training module, and that therefore the Petitioner's membership was not 
predicated on his completion of the training course. More importantly, the Petitioner has not submitted 
documentary evidence of the requirements for membership in the FA, or for entry into or completion 
of the Youth Award training program which he asserts forms the basis of his membership. In addition, 
while he has submitted biographies of the individuals whose names appear at the bottom of these 
certificates, he has not submitted documentary evidence showing that they had any role in judging his 
achievements as a condition of his membership into the FA. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his statements regarding his qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner refers to his coaching 
certifications, stating that they allow him "to participate on a panel or as a judge of the work of others." 
While he has submitted letters confirming that he has acted as a coach for youth soccer teams in the 
United Kingdom and the United States, he has not provided evidence of instances of his participation 
as a judge of other soccer athletes or coaches. As such, he has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that their work in the field has been displayed, and 
that the display took place at an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature. Here, the Petitioner 
has claimed this criterion in response to the Director's RFE and again on appeal, but in both cases he 
has only repeated the language of this criterion. He has not specified a particular exhibition or 
showcase by name or date of the event, nor has he described the nature of his work which was 
displayed. In addition, as the Petitioner's field is soccer playing and coaching, it is his burden to 
establish that any exhibition or showcase at which his work was displayed was artistic in nature, as 
opposed to athletic or commercial. He has not submitted documentary evidence of any display of his 
work which might qualify under this criterion. As such, he has not shown that he meets this criterion. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria on appeal, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these 
additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Therefore, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record lacks the extensive documentation required, and does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19408161 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 07, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief executive officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least 
three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal.1 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been employed since 2015 as the chief executive officer and 
owner of a commercial and residential cleaning service, 
Louisiana . The Petitioner received a bachelor's degree in management from ____ 
University ! in 2018. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming to meet five criteria, relating 
to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations, published 
materials in major media, judging the work of others, and leading or critical role. After reviewing all 
the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based upon his receipt of the I 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award at the 2014 !Championship at I In order 
to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner provided a photograph showing the Petitioner's receipt of the .... I ____ 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award's $2,000 prize for his proposed business model, the International 
Academic and Professional Network, an enterprise to promote U.S. higher education "in African 
developing countries by connecting prospective international students to universities in the United 
States." The press release advertising the 2014 Championship indicates 
that six teams competed in the championship, "presenting their ideas to fellow students as well as 
faculty, staff, and judges," and that the Petitioner was the sole team member for his proposed business 
model. In addition to the $2,000 prize of the I !Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, funded by 
thel J the championship also awarded a total of $6,000, funded byl Ito the 
first, second, and third place teams of thd I Championship competition . The 
press release indicates that the teams were judged "on written decks, oral presentation , and business 
feasibility ," and that the judges for the 2014 championship included a visiting associate professor in I I business school, the president of the I I a partner at I and an 
executive for the I Economic Partnership . 
In two lettersJ I coordinator of entrepreneurial studies at and director of the I !championship, confirms that the Petitioner won the 20141 I 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award, and states that the _______ "serves local, regional, 
national and international business interests in a wide range of markets and industries. " She also 
indicates that the criteria for the award are that "the competitor must exhibit evidence during their oral 
presentation that they are the most likely competitor to follow through with their planning for building 
a startup team and meeting milestones for beginnin a new venture and has excellence in their field." 
She further provides the names of several other -ast winners of the award and 
a brief description of their winning startups. In two letters, ___ director Technolo 
Business Development Center, also confirms that the Petitioner won the 2014 the 2014 Entrepreneurial Spirit Award and corresponding cash prize presented b which she 
describes as "one of the largest and most respected! lin the United States."
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not establish that the 2014 ____ 
Entrepreneurial Spirit Award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence. Although the I I Spirit Award may be recognized at the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that the I I award, which serves "to recognize the team with the most 
entrepreneurial spirit" and has a relatively small number of entrants, qualifies as a prize or award for 
excellence in the field. While the award materials indicate thatl I is a large the 
record does not contain evidence establishing that the award is recognized nationally or internationally 
for excellence in the field beyond the awarding entity. Such an honor given to students inherently 
excludes established experts and professionals from consideration and appears to be further restricted to of one of one institution etitioner, therefore, has not established that his prize in a 
contest limited to on was a nationally or internationally recognized award. In 
addition, an award limited to participants withl I may be a relevant factor in determining 
whether the overall field acknowledges it for excellence. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Further, we note that the record contains evidence that in January 2020 the Petitioner received the 
Young Business Leader of the year award from the I I Chamber of Commerce. 
Moreover, on appeal the Petitioner submits a copy of a certificate of I I 
3 
Recognition he received in June 2021 from __________ "in recognition of 
outstanding and invaluable service to the community ." This evidence, however, occurred after the 
initial filing of the petition on May 21, 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, he cannot establish his eligibility under 
this criterion based on additional awards he received in 2020 and 2021, even ifwe were to determine 
that they otherwise satisfy all elements of this evidentiary criterion. Accordingly, we will not consider 
this evidence. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the _____ 
Chamber of Commerce I I In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 In denying the 
petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner indicated membership withl I and provided two letters from 
President and CEO of confirming the Petitioner's membership in the organization since 2017 
as a business owner. According to the provided bylaws of the organization dated August 2019, the 
is organized for the purpose of "advancing the economic, industrial professional , cultural, and 
civic welfare of I and its trade area." The bylaws also provide that members 
may hold both Individual and Business membership and that Individual membership may be accepted 
with a referral from another member in good standing. Thel I bylaws further state, in pertinent 
part, as follows: 
Any reputable person, firm, corporation, partnership, or estate, in sympathy with the 
purpose of the organization, shall be able to apply for active membership . All 
applications for membership shall be in writing and submitted on the form provided by 
the Chamber. Applications for membership shall be submitted to the President and 
Board of Directors for approval. The Board of Directors shall have the right to accept 
or reject any application for membership for any reason whatsoever. ... An affirmative 
vote of the majority of the Board of Directors shall be required to approve any 
application for membership presented to the committee .... 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research) . 
4 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that thel I requirements rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, based on the presented 
documentation, any individual or business "in sympathy with the purpose of the organization" may 
apply for and be granted membership in I which criterion, in-and-of-itself: the Petitioner did not 
show is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
thatl I requires that an applicant has made outstanding achievements in the field. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements for membership with . 5
____ also indicates that the Petitioner has served as a Chamber Ambassador withl I since 
201 7, which she describes as "a prestigious group of chamber members who volunteer their time to 
actively serve the I I Chamber of Commerce as well as the I business 
community." She states that to become an ambassador each member is required to apply, and"[ o ]nee 
the selection criteria are met, the candidate is placed on a 60-day probation period before his admission 
to the ambassadors group."I does not detail or explain the required selection criteria for 
a Chamber Ambassador, nor does the record, including th bylaws, otherwise contain any I 
information about such criteria. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the 
requirements for Chamber Ambassador rise to the level of outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts, consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, I states that the Petitioner was appointed to thel I board of directors in 
October 2019 and indicates the requirements to qualify for board membership. As noted, the Petitioner 
must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). As he filed his petition 
in May 2019, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his board membership withl I occurred prior 
to or at the time of his initial filing. Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 6 The record contains several articles pertaining to the Petitioner. An article from 
lastartupprize. com dated 2014 mentions that the Petitioner was one of several I I who gave 
short investor pitches at the qualifying round of the inaugural! I Startup Prize competition. 
The Petitioner also provided an item dated 2016 from the I newspaper The Tech Talk titled I I Further, a listing in the print publication Chamber 
Connection dated March 2019 with an accompanying photograph relate the ribbon-cutting ceremony 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien must show 
that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or international experts as 
having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 
for the downtown l __ location of the Petitioner's cleaning business, and mention him by name as 
the owner. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate, however, that the aforementioned articles from lastartupprize.com, 
The Tech Talk, and Chamber Connection reflect published material about him relating to his work. 
Specifically, the lastartupprize.com article is about the qualifying round of the inaugural I 
Startup Prize competition with the Petitioner mentioned as a participant. The The Tech Talk article provides the Petit the Petitioner's description ofl I 
rather than material about him. The Chamber Connection article briefly mentions the 
opening of the I I location of the Petitioner's cleaning business. Articles that are not 
about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). Moreover, the Chamber Connection article did not demonstrate the author of the 
article. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner did submit two articles that are about him relating to his work in the field. An article 
dated March 2019 from the print publication! Daily Leader titled I I ______ is about the Petitioner's background as an I and his work as the 
owner of a cleaning services business. An interview of the Petitioner dated February 2018 from the 
print publication Chamber Connection is about him, relatin to his "personal philosophy" and 
background and how he benefits from his membership in the The Petitioner, however, did not 
submit comparative circulation or distribution data for the Daily Leader or Chamber 
Connection to support his claim that he and his work have been featured in major media and/or major 
trade publications. 7 The Petitioner also did not demonstrate the author of the Chamber Connection 
article. As noted, the inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, the record contains an article authored by the Petitioner and dated August 2018 titled I I As noted by the Director, as the article does not 
contain any proof of publication, it does not meet the plain language of this criterion, which requires 
published materials about the Petitioner and his work in the field published in professional or other 
major trade publications or other major media. 
Further, we note that the record contains an article dated 2020 published irj I Life Magazine that 
quotes the Petitioner and a screenshot of a video posted on myarklamiss.com by in in 
February 2020 from thel which the Petitioner claimed reflected an 
interview of him. Moreover, on appeal the Petitioner provided an advertisement for his company 
dated 2021 froml Life Magazine. As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As he filed his petition in May 2019, the Petitioner 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2 appendix (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 
did not demonstrate that this evidence occurred prior to or at the time of his initial filing. Accordingly, 
we will not consider this evidence. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, memberships, and published 
material. Although he submits evidence for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to judging at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach 
these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483383 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mixed martial arts (MMA) athlete who intends to represent the United States in 
national and international competitions and, "in the future, coach future American athletes for the 
world leadership in this field." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the 
record demonstrates that he only meets one of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), of which he must meet at least three. Specifically, the Director held that he only met the criteria 
for published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the following: (1) that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award; and (2) that he meets these alternate criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contribution at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). For the reasons discussed below, we conclude 
that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements for an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
A. Major International Award 
As determined by the Director, the Petitioner has not established that he has earned a one-time 
achievement of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). This 
regulation is consistent with the legislative history of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A), stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized 
award. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 
200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time 
achievement. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner won an Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) Fight 
Night ______ inl 2016. The record contains an analysis of the fight from 
UPC.com and an article about the fight from bloodyelbow.com. The Petitioner asserts that this 
constitutes a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. However, he has 
not submitted documentation to substantiate this claim or to establish that winning UFC Fight Night 
2 
would constitute a major, international award. Therefore, the evidence in the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner has earned a major, internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner continues to contend that he has won major UFC awards, including the Performance of 
the Night and Fight of the Night awards. Although he has provided information regarding UFC, the 
evidence is insufficient to establish that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. For example, the Petitioner did not submit supporting 
documentary evidence in the form of official entry requirements from UFC or other evidence to 
establish the significance of the events within the sport. 
A UFC competition may be open to athletes from throughout a particular country or countries, but this 
factor alone is not adequate to establish that an award or prize from that competition is nationally or 
internationally recognized. The burden is on the Petitioner to demonstrate the level of recognition and 
achievement associated with his awards. The submitted documentation does not establish that the 
Petitioner's awards had a substantial level ofrecognition beyond the context of the event where it was 
presented and was therefore commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted a Brazilian jiu-jitsu belt certificate for his attainment of a black belt 
ranking, but this certificate does not equate to nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in the field. The black belt certificate reflects that the Petitioner earned a promotion in 
rank based on his successful completion of a jiu-jitsu skills test, but he has not established that his 
promotion to this rank constitutes either a prize or an award, nor has he submitted documentation, such 
as media reports, demonstrating that his rank has received national or international recognition. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed membership with UFC and submitted documentation regarding the entity. 
Although the Petitioner provided a printout from UFC's website entitled "Apply to Be a Fighter," the 
document only provides a website address for fighters to create a profile in order to submit their 
application. The documentation does not show UFC's membership requirements. Thus, the Petitioner 
has not shown that membership with UFC requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition 
for membership. Therefore, he does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that his MMA fights and tournaments serve as evidence of his original 
contributions of major significance in the field. While he demonstrated that he participated in MMA­
related events, the Petitioner has not shown how such participation is tantamount to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. He did not, for instance, point to a particular match 
or provide a specific example explaining its impact or unusual importance to MMA. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to consider the letters of support submitted 
by MMA experts and, therefore, it is violation of due process. The letters discuss the Petitioner's 
achievements as an MMA fighter, as well as his signature move called I I The letters, 
however, do not provide specific information explaining how the Petitioner's signature move has 
influenced the MMA field in a significant manner beyond its impact on the Petitioner winning two 
fights in 2014 and 2016. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 1 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that forms the 
basis for meeting this criterion. 2 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the Petitioner has competed in MMA fights and participated in extensive martial arts training, 
he has not shown how these activities equate to "original" athletic contributions of major significance 
in the field. According to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the contributions must be not 
only original but of major significance. While this suggests that he is knowledgeable and skilled in 
MMA, it does not establish that he has made original athletic contributions of major significance in 
the field. Although the Petitioner has earned the admiration of his references, the evidence submitted 
does not demonstrate that his impact on the sport is commensurate with an original athletic 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner assets that he has performed in a leading or critical role for UFC as its strongest member. 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which a petitioner 
was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
Although he demonstrated that he competed in UFC fights and tournaments, the Petitioner has not 
shown how his role as a competitive fighter is reflective of a leading role for them. The record does 
1 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
2 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
not include evidence, for example, differentiating his role as a competitor from the roles of the other 
competitors or employees of UFC. Furthermore, he has not indicated where his position fits in the 
overall hierarchy of the UFC organization. Without evidence establishing that he performed in a 
leading role, the Petitioner's role as a competitor in and of itself is insufficient to show that it is leading 
consistent with the plain language of this regulatory criterion. 
Regarding the critical nature of his role at UFC, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how he impacted 
their standings in the field. For instance, he did not show that UFC garnered attention or increased 
attendance based on his event appearances. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden 
of demonstrating his eligibility under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has won some UPC fights, but the record does not demonstrate the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 7, 2024 In Re: 30189325 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineering executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen' s] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be an expert in drilling engineering, with specific emphasis on well 
completion for oil and gas exploration and production. He intends to continue his work in this filed 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
related to memberships (ii), published materials (iii), judging (iv) and original contributions (v). The 
Petitioner does not address or contest on appeal the Director's finding that he does not meet the authorship 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 1 Accordingly, we deem this ground to be waived. An issue not 
raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing 
MatterofRA-M-, 25 I&NDec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 2 
1 In response to the Director's request for evidence, counsel for the Petitioner stated that the initial claim that the Petitioner 
had authored scholarly articles was the result of a drafting error, and requested that USCIS disregard the Petitioner's claim 
that he satisfied this criterion. 
2 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered the record in its entirety. 
2 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's] membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the American Association 
of Drilling Engineers (AADE). USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims 
membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized 
experts in that field. 3 A petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 4 
The Petitioner initially provided a letter from the president of the I I chapter of AADE, who 
confirmed that the Petitioner served on the Steering Committee ofthe association' sl I I I from September 2006 to December 2008. The writer further indicated that membership in 
the association's Steering Committees "is based on merit and industry experience, and requires 
nomination by existing Steering Committee members." 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the submitted documentation was 
insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of this criterion. In response, 
the Petitioner submitted a letter from the association's business administrator, confirming that the 
Petitioner was a member of the association. The Petitioner also submitted copies of meeting minutes for 
the Steering Committee demonstrating the Petitioner's nomination to and participation in the activities of 
the committee, as well as the association's mission statement. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that while the evidence demonstrated the Petitioner's 
membership in AADE, the record contained insufficient evidence to establish that membership in the 
association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determination was erroneous, and relies on the 
evidence previously submitted to establish eligibility. Specifically, the Petitioner claims that the evidence 
ofrecord sufficiently demonstrates that the Petitioner was nominated for, appointed to, and served on the 
Steering Committee for the association's ~ and that such membership requires him to have 
outstanding achievements in the field. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence of the membership requirements for AADE. As the record does 
not contain the bylaws or other official documentation ofthe association's membership criteria, we cannot 
evaluate whether the Petitioner's membership is qualifying. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts judge membership 
for AADE and/or its Steering Committee. Although the letters submitted indicate that AADE is 
comprised of "professional members ... who represent the top of their professions," and that existing 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 Id. 
3 
Steering Committee members nominate new members, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of 
these members are recognized national or international experts. On appeal, we acknowledge the 
Petitioner's assertion that the voting members ofthe association's board of directors are "unquestionable 
experts in their disciplines or fields" and the assertion that many are high-ranking officials ofmajor energy 
companies including ConocoPhillips and Halliburton Energy Services. However, the record does not 
contain documentation specifically identifying the voting members, nor does it indicate whether voting 
members are required to be recognized national or international experts or otherwise show that the body 
of voting members consists of recognized national or international experts. Moreover, the issue for this 
criterion is whether the individuals who determine membership are recognized national or international 
experts rather than the reputation of the companies who employ them. We are not persuaded that every 
employee who works for a recognized company is also a recognized national or international expert in 
the field. In addition to not specifically identifying the voting members, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the voting members are viewed as recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the [noncitizen} in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen 's} work in the field for which 
class[fication is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted copies of technical publications discussing engineering advancements in the 
Petitioner's field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. In addition to determining that the technical publications were not about the Petitioner, the 
Director noted that some submissions lacked the title, name of the author, and the publication date. 
Accordingly, the Director requested additional evidence to overcome these evidentiary deficiencies. 
In response, the Petitioner maintained that the initially submitted evidence contained "advancements 
and findings made by [the Petitioner's] team of top-level researchers and scientists" and therefore 
constituted published material relating to his work in the field. The Petitioner also submitted copies 
of papers which he asserts were written by his team members and presented at conferences. 
In denying the petition, the Director indicated that none of the published material satisfied all 
requirements stated in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director noted that none of 
the published material mentioned, cited, quoted or otherwise referenced the Petitioner. Further, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the papers submitted in response to 
the RFE constituted published material about his work as contemplated by this criterion. On appeal, 
4 
the Petitioner reasserts that the evidence submitted at the time of filing and in response to the RFE was 
sufficient and disagrees with the Director's conclusions to the contrary. 5 
We have reviewed the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, and conclude that the record 
supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the submitted 
documentation satisfies all requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
According to the plain language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the published material must be both about 
the Petitioner and relating to his work in the field. Here, while we acknowledge the Petitioner's 
assertions that the technical publications and papers contain information about advances in his field as 
put forth by the Petitioner and his team, the submitted documentation does not discuss the merits of the 
Petitioner's work, his standing in the field, any significant impact that his work has had on the field, or 
any other information so as to be considered published material about the Petitioner as required by this 
criterion. Articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
about a show are not about the actor). 
After review of the evidence submitted, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the 
same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This criterion requires not only that the Petitioner was selected to serve as a judge, but also that the 
Petitioner is able to produce evidence that he actually participated as a judge. The phrase "a judge" 
implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Additionally, these duties must have been directly judging the work of 
others in the same or an allied field in which the Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification within 
the present petition. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the 
plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Here, the Director determined that a letter discussing the Petitioner's employment with I I and 
the various positions held and associated duties he performed during the course of that employment, 
did not serve as evidence that he met this criterion. In response to the RFE and again on appeal, the 
Petitioner disputes the Director's determination, emphasizing that as a member ofl !Global 
Drilling and Completions Leadership Team and Personal Development Committee (PDC), "he 
reviewed the work of the entire Drilling and Completions workforce around the world (totaling 
thousands of members)." The Petitioner farther asserts that he conducted performance reviews of the 
teams in the regions where he served as a manager, conducted annual performance appraisals, hired 
new employees, and selected individuals for promotion. The Petitioner also submitted copies of 
documents relating to the PDC, including a conference itinerary, charter, and enterprise PDC call 
5 The Petitioner also asserts that the Director erred by failing to consider the submitted documentation under the comparable 
evidence provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). We will address this assertion later in our decision. 
5 
letter, as well as email correspondence indicating that his team members had written papers regarding 
their work in the field. 
Additionally, the Petitioner asserts that he oversaw and judged the work of his subordinates on the 
19-member Rock Mechanics Team, nominated a subordinate as al IFellow, and indicated that 
as executive vice president of completions for.__________ ____,,, he is currently "responsible 
for judging the work ofothers on a regular basis, as he constantly reviews the work of other engineers 
to promote a safer and more streamlined environment for the company and its customers." 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not point to specific evidence in the record demonstrating that 
he meets this criterion. To fulfill this criterion, the evidence must show that an individual "actually 
participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of s ecialization."6 Here, 
the Petitioner asserts that his experience working as a team leader on various projects, and 
his role as executive vice president of completions for.__ ________ ~ qualifies under this 
criterion. However, serving as a team leader or in an executive capacity where part ofone's job duties 
includes evaluating others in the exercise of those duties does not equate to participation as a judge of 
the work of others in the field. Again, the phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging 
capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating 
subordinate employees. Incidental evaluation responsibilities inherent to a supervisory or executive 
position do not establish that the Petitioner served in an official capacity, either individually or on a 
panel, as "a judge" of the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites to MRC Energy Co. v. USCIS, No. 3:19-CV-2003-K, 2021 WL 
1209188, an instance in which USCIS's decision was found to be arbitrary and capricious because it 
imposed an extra-regulatory requirement that the beneficiary must have been invited to serve as a 
judge rather than do so as part of his job. Here, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision 
similarly imposed an extra-regulatory requirement by discounting the Petitioner's judging activities in 
the course of his employment. While we agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the plain language 
of the judging criterion does not require an individual to serve as a judge outside of their job, it 
nevertheless requires a petitioner to provide "evidence of [their] participation, either individually or 
on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which 
classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has not done so here. 
Regarding his claimed judging responsibilities at I I the Petitioner submits a letter from one of 
the company's vice presidents reciting the Petitioner's career history and associated duties. Although 
theI lletter generally claims that the Petitioner "reviewed" the work of the global drilling and 
completions workforce, it does not contain specific information, such as when the reviews occurred, 
whom he evaluated, what standards of review were imposed, and the ultimate outcome of those 
reviews, to support the writer's assertions and demonstrate that the Petitioner served as a judge of the 
work of others. In support of his claimed judging for~--------~ the Petitioner simply 
submitted his resume which outlines his position title and associated job duties. The Petitioner did not 
submit evidence indicating that either of his employers designated him "as a judge" in his capacity as 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 
a team leader or executive vice president of completions, or otherwise establishing that his roles as 
such were consistent with this regulatory criterion. 7 
Without farther documentation, this evidence is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 
For example, the Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner initially submitted several testimonial letters in support of his eligibility under this 
criterion. The Director found these letters insufficient, and requested additional evidence in the form 
of objective documentary evidence demonstrating that people throughout the field regard his original 
contributions as important, or that his work has been widely cited, has provoked widespread 
commentary, or is being implemented by others. The Director provided a list of the types of 
documentary evidence the Petitioner could submit in addition to letters, including patents, trademarks 
and copyrighted materials, peer reviewed published materials, and licensed technologies. 
In response, the Petitioner asserted that the Director erroneously discounted the evidence initially 
submitted, and asserted that the statements in the letters demonstrate that he has made original 
contributions of major significance to the field. The Petitioner also submitted an expert opinion letter 
in response to the RFE in support of this assertion. 
In the denial decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of multiple letters but 
concluded that none of the letters articulated how his contributions reached beyond his employers and 
clients to be of significance to the field. On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that the Director erred 
by not sufficiently analyzing and affording evidentiary weight to the letters, and farther asserts that 
"there is extensive evidence on record" that the Petitioner is an expert in the industry. 
Preliminarily, we note that this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his 
original contributions and explain why they are ofmajor significance. Although the Petitioner asserts 
throughout the record that he is an expert in the field of drilling engineering and that the record 
demonstrates that has made original contributions of major significance to the field, he does not 
specifically identify those contributions or explain how his work has had such a deep or widespread 
impact as to be considered major in the field of oil and gas or drilling engineering. 
7 We acknowledge the assertions that the Petitioner held senior-level positions for these employers. However, the 
high-level tasks he performed in these roles are more relevant to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and distinct criterion that the Petitioner has satisfied .. 
8 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
7 
The Petitioner initially provided six reference letters from former colleagues at I I and relies 
primarily on the testimonies contained therein to establish eligibility under this criterion. We will 
discuss each letter below. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I a general manager of strategy and training at 
.____~I who recounts his familiarity with the Petitioner during his career with the company and 
notes that the Petitioner "was able to reduce safety incidents to zero during his tenure" by 
implementing novel accountability measures, "improved drilling efficiency in Venezuela and 
Argentina" and "implemented programs to improve organizational capabilities and to prepare the 
workforce to take on challenging technical and management assignments across the world." The 
writer concluded that the Petitioner's efforts "have savedI !hundreds of millions of dollars 
while keeping people safe and protecting the environment." 
A letter from I I president of. _________ ___, indicates that he served as the 
Petitioner's supervisor when he worked for the company in Canada. Mr. I Istates that during 
his first year running drilling and completions, the Petitioner "reduced the number of [safety] incidents 
from 13 to zero" through changes he implemented in agreements with service providers. He farther 
states that in addition to improving the safety culture for the company in Canada, he improved drilling 
efficiency by reducing the amount of drilling days required for company projects in both Canada and 
Argentina. 
A letter from I I vice president of health, safety and environment at I I recites the 
Petitioner's career history and associated duties at the company. Mr. I lstates that as a team leader 
for rock mechanics, the Petitioner's leadership on the team's projects "helped to reduce risks related 
to uncertainties in subsurface rock mechanics, ultimately reducing the company's capital expenditure 
on drilling and completions." Mr. I Ialso discusses the process improvements and drilling 
efficiencies the Petitioner implemented in Canada, and farther states that he was involved in the 
development ofl I"unique assurance program for well control." 
.___________ ~vice president and global account director forl Ialso recounts the 
Petitioner's process improvements and drilling efficiencies. He farther claims that the Petitioner's 
"overarching accomplishment has been to deliver large drilling projects around the world effectively, 
timely, under budget, and perhaps most importantly, safely," and that his "innovative approach was 
unique in my experience, and rarely is this level of collaboration found in the oilfield." Similarly,I I a retired general manager for al lbusiness venture in Argentina, recounts 
working with the Petitioner over the course of his career and reiterates the Petitioner's 
accomplishments in drilling efficiencies as well as cost and safety improvements . 
.______ ___.l president and CEO of. __________ ___, states that he worked closely with 
the Petitioner on several initiatives and notes that the Petitioner's drilling initiatives "saved ~I_____, 
over $1 million USD per well in completion costs." He farther states: 
[The Petitioner] has personified extraordinary operational excellence in the field of oil 
and gas in every role I have seen him pursue. He has shown initiative to create a safer 
and more compliant workspace for his colleagues and his professionalism is at the 
8 
highest level I have seen. His employment at our client was imperative to building our 
relationship with them that continues to this day. 
While these letters from the Petitioner's former colleagues atl !highlight the importance and 
value of the Petitioner's job performance during his employment, they do not describe how his 
contributions as an employee led to impacts beyond I I business operations. The authors 
repeatedly refer to the Petitioner's original and innovative approaches, specifically his drilling 
efficiencies and safety protocols and procedures, but they do not elaborate on any specific resulting 
outcomes that extend beyond the business operations of I I These letters primarily contain 
attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's contributions and innovations without 
describing a specific original contribution that has impacted the broader field of oil and gas, provoked 
widespread commentary, or had an influence on subsequent work in the specific field of drilling 
engineering. 9 Moreover, the authors indicate that the Petitioner has helped I I profitability 
and speak highly of his abilities, but do not specify how his safety protocols and drilling efficiencies 
implemented on behalf of I I have been widely implemented in the field or establish that the 
Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted an expert opinion letter from I I general 
counsel for I Iwho summarizes the declarations contained in the letters from the 
Petitioner's! Icolleagues and concludes that, based on his "over 30 years oflegal and merger 
acquisition expertise in the energy industry," the Petitioner has made "business contributions of major 
significance in the field." The author, however, did not identify the Petitioner's specific contributions, 
nor did he elaborate and describe how these "business contributions" have somehow affected the field 
in a significant manner. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While all ofthe letters submitted collectively speak to the Petitioner's innovations in safety and drilling 
efficiencies, they do not provide examples of the depth or breadth of that impact. Neither the letters 
nor other evidence within the record shows how the Petitioner's work has been widely implemented 
or has otherwise impacted the field of oil and gas or fields directly related to advancements in drilling 
engineering methodologies. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field add value. 10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 
The burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but to also demonstrate 
why they are considered to be of major significance in the field. Here, for the reasons discussed, the 
Petitioner has not met this burden. 
9 Id. 
io Id. 
11 Id. 
9 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Additionally, the Petitioner requested 
consideration of the documentation submitted in support of the 
published materials criterion as comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are 
able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to their 
occupation, which in this case involves performing the work of an engineering executive. It is the 
Petitioner's burden to explain why the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to the occupation and 
how the evidence submitted is "comparable" to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 12 
While the Petitioner suggests that due to the nature of his work, the documents submitted as evidence 
of eligibility under the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) "may not fit 
optimally within the plain language of this criterion," he does not discuss why the criterion is 
inapplicable to his occupation. A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion 
does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative. 13 The regulatory language 
precludes the consideration of comparable evidence in this case, however, as there is no indication 
that eligibility for visa preference in the occupation of an engineering executive cannot be established 
by at least three of the ten criteria specified by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In fact, as 
indicated in this decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence that specifically addressed six of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and the record reflects that he has satisfied two of those criteria. 
Where a petitioner is unable to meet or submit sufficient documentary evidence of at least three of 
these criteria, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) does not allow for the 
submission of comparable evidence. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that it may rely on 
comparable evidence. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of 
extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed 
on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant 
visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. 
See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajf'd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 7, 2024 In Re: 30336038 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only two: awards for excellence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional criteria, relating 
to published material about him, original contributions of major significance, leading or critical role, 
and high salary. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he satisfies the leading or critical role 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 1 The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the basis for denial of 
the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third initial 
criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
1 The record includes documentation indicating that as Head of the Water and Food Supply Sector at R-S-C-E-, the 
Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. We agree with the 
Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director erred in analyzing his documents under the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) by requiring "evidence to establish the major significance of the organization." While the language of 
this criterion states that the organization must have a "distinguished reputation," it does not require ·'major significance" 
as indicated in the Director's analysis. 
2 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19825526 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 8, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a digital product and business manager in the mobile communications industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner (1) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria; (2) seeks 
to enter the United States to continue working in her area of expertise; and (3) will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner works in the mobile communications industry. The Petitioner seeks employment as a 
multi-access edge computing digital technology and product manager. She did not identify a 
prospective or intended employer on the petition form. In India, she worked forl lfrom 2001 
to 2004, and for lfrom 2004 to 2005. From 2005 to 2019, she worked for I land affiliated companies in India, Germany, and the United States, most recently for of 
America from 2016 to 2019, first as head of strategy and business development/business product 
management, and then as a senior product manager. She is the author of a U.S. patent, published in 
2019, for what she describes as I I I The Petitioner is in the United Kingdom. At the time she filed the petition in March 2021, 
she was studying for a master's degree at I and had recently accepted an offer 
of employment as a "Principle [sic] Product Manager" for l also in London. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, relating to original contributions of 
major significance; leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations or establishments; and high 
remuneration for services. The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets all three claimed criteria. Because the 
Petitioner only claims to have satisfied three of the ten regulatory criteria, the petition cannot proceed to 
a final merits determination unless she meets all three. Therefore, an adverse determination regarding 
any one of the criteria is sufficient to determine the outcome of the appeal. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which calls for evidence that the petitioner has commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
2 
In claiming a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, the Petitioner does not 
submit any evidence of past salaries or remuneration paid to her. Instead, the Petitioner states that she 
"has received multiple global offers from industry giants,I I l andl I" The 
Petitioner submits a table of figures in U.S. dollars and U.K. pounds, stating that they represent the 
compensation packages accompanying those offers. The table, reproduced below, is incorporated into 
a letter dated March 5, 2021: 
Position I I Product Line Senior Strategy and Principal Product 
offered Manager,! I Business Development Manager/Director, 
Manager I I I 
Currency US$ UK£ US$ UK£ US$ UK£ 
Base salary 167,000 123,000 206,021 150,960 180,300 132,115 
Bonus 26,500 19,500 63,870 46,800 63,870 49,570 
Equity 48,125 35,000 20,000 14,650 262,500 192,300 
Total 241,625 177,500 289,891 212,410 506,670 373,985 
The Petitioner's initial submission did not include documentary evidence to support the figures 
claimed above. When the Director requested such evidence, the Petitioner responded by documenting 
two offers from and that do not match what the Petitioner previously claimed. The 
Petitioner submitted no documentat10n regarding I Is claimed offer. 
In a January 29, 2021 message,D offered the Petitioner a position as a "Senior Technical Sales 
Manager Network Solutions & Telecom Segment," with the following "Compensation Illustration": 
Base pay: 
Commission Target (25%): 
Quarterly Profit Bonus Estimate : 
Base + Bonus Targets: 
Hire Bonus: 
Stock Grant (vested over 3 years): £144,000 
36,000 
10,800 
190,800 
20,000 
60,000 (US$197,586 at 1/29/2021 exchange rate1) 
offered the Petitioner a position as "Principle [sic] Product Manager" on February 9, 2021; 
the Petitioner accepted the job offer, with a signature dated February 12, 2021. The job offer letter 
describes the following compensation package: 
Base salary: 
On-hire stock award: 
Bonus scheme: £123,715 (US$170,671 at 2/9/2021 exchange rate2) 
$450,0003 
Eligibility for a performance-based bonus of up to 40% of salary 
1 See https://www.xe.com/currencyt ables/?from=GBP&date =202 l-O l-29#table-section . 
2 See https://www .xe.com/currencytables /?from=GBP &date=202 l -02-09#tab le-section. 
3 The offer letter does not make clear the timing of distribution of the award. The 202 J annual report notes, 
"Stock awards entitle the holder to receive shares of lcommon stock as the award vests. Stock awards generally 
vest over a service period of four years or five years." See https://wwwl !com/inve stor/reports/ar2 l/index.html. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts: "The total of each remuneration package offered to [her] is well above the 
national average salary as provided by the Willis Towers Watson wage survey report."4 That report 
shows the following figures (in U.S. dollars) for "Strategic Planning/Corporate DevelopmentlDigital 
StrategylGroup Manager (Supervisory/Management)": 
Percentile Average 10th 25th 50th 75th 90th 
Base Salary 181,893 155,146 160,170 175,192 189,900 241,000 
Actual Performance Bonus 43,344 11,016 18,588 31,856 64,179 106,765 
Actual Total Annual Incentives 44,759 11,097 20,564 36,018 66,890 106,181 
Actual Total Annual Compensation 221,474 177,670 191,136 210,245 235,000 306,965 
Target Total Annual Compensation5 200,747 160,086 176,871 202,843 227,500 240,954 
We note that the base salary for the I I position the Petitioner accepted is below the average 
base salary shown in the survey report, and the 90th percentile wages reflect a substantially higher base 
salary. Even then, the survey report is insufficient to show how the Petitioner's compensation stands 
in relation to others in the field, for two key reasons. First, the survey report is designated "United 
States," with no indication that any data pertains to positions in the United Kingdom. 6 Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established the survey's applicability to the two U.K. job offers she has documented. 
Second, the compensation packages from and I I include equity elements that are not 
reflected in the submitted data from the survey report. Explanatory text in the survey report differentiates 
between "Annual Incentives" and "Long-Term Incentives." The latter category includes stock-and share­
related benefits such as "Stock Options" and "Performance Shares," which appear to amount to equity. 
The Petitioner did not submit any survey data regarding these "Long-Term Incentives." Thus, the 
comparative survey figures that the Petitioner has provided appear to be incomplete relative to the data 
she provided regarding her claimed job offers. As such, the figures provided do not allow a full 
comparison, because the Petitioner listed stock as part of her offered compensation. Also, it is unclear 
how to interpret the Petitioner's stock award. If the award vests over the course of multiple years, then 
the award would appear to be less than the annual amounts of equity on the offers initially submitted. The 
record does not contain sufficient information on the timing of the award and how it factors into her 
annual compensation. Without such evidence, we cannot sufficiently determine whether the Petitioner's 
total remuneration is high in relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "The total of each remuneration package offered to [the Petitioner] 
is well above the national average salary as provided by the Willis Towers Watson wage survey 
report," but the "total ... remuneration package" includes a number of elements that do not count as 
"salary, and the elements submitted do not appear to necessarily correspond to the elements in the 
chart. Therefore, such a comparison would not be accurate. 
4 The full title of the report is United States I 2020 General Industry Middle Management, Professional and Services Survey 
Report I Compensation Data. 
5 The submitted materials do not explain the difference between 'Target" and "Actual" numbers. 
6 Persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be 
considered high in the United States. 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix. 
4 
For the above reasons, the incomplete U.S. compensation figures do not show that the Petitioner's 
U.K. compensation offers meet the requirements for this criterion. 
We must also note that the base salaries in the job offer documents are lower than the figures the 
Petitioner initially claimed. Both offers predated March 2021, when the Petitioner filed the petition; 
the Petitioner had actually accepted one of those offers in early February 2021, several weeks before 
the filing date. The Petitioner does not explain why the terms described in the March 2021 filing did 
not match the actual job offers, which were already known to her at that time. The Petitioner did not 
submit the actual job offer documentation, or disclose the changes to the offers and compensation 
packages, until after the Director issued a request for evidence. 
In light of our determination that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we decline to reach, and hereby reserve, the Petitioner's appellate arguments 
regarding (1) the other claimed criteria; (2) the Petitioner's intended work in the United States; and 
(3) the prospective benefit to the United States, because they cannot change the outcome of the appeal. 7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We note the Petitioner's 
submission of l's 2018 Annual Report, which lists various "2018 highlights," but we can find no 
recognizable references to the Petitioner's activities as described in letters submitted in support of the 
petition. This is in keeping with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's work was important 
for individual projects, but not critical forl I at the organizational level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516. 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19808233 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 8, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability as a cricket official and 
administrator. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his intent to continue to work in his area 
of expertise and that he would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implement ing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rifai v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims that e began officiating cricket in India in 2000 and d has been a member of the 
umpiring committee at the -inl North Carolina since 2012.1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for four 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 2 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his membership with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) Panel of Scorers and 
references evidence from BCCI indicating that he "passed the Examination for Statisticians and 
Scorers." In addition, he points to a letter from I I interim BCCI, who confirmed 
1 The record reflects that the PetitionerreceivedH 1B nonimmigrantvisa classification reserved for individuals to perform 
services in a specialty occupation, to work as an Oracle solution architect for in Texas. In 
addition, the Petitioner is the beneficiary of an approved second preference immigrant petition as a member of the 
professions with an advanced degree filed byl Ito work as a senior business analyst. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an 
example ofadmission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals 
to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 
the Petitioner's membership with BCCI' s Panel of Scorers and stated that "BCCI formulates the panel 
for each category of match officials like BCCI Panel of Scorers, Umpires, Video Analysts and Match 
Referees," and "[e]ach Panel consists of the individuals who have attained the highest level of 
expertise and achievement in the respective category of match officials." In addition, he provided 
BCCI's "Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations" and amendments to the bylaws 
highlighting: 
The function of the Umpires Committee shall be to standardize umpiring throughout 
India and to draw up and maintain a panel of Umpires to officiate matches in India and 
classify them into Elite Panel, All India Panel and Ranji Trophy Panel of Umpires, 
according to the merits of the Umpires (subject to reclassification), as per criteria 
worked out by the Committee. The committee shall hold examinations from time to 
time for this purpose. 
The Petitioner did not establish that his membership with BCCI Panel of Scorers meets this regulatory 
criterion. Neither BCCI's rules and regulations mention the membership or eligibility requirements 
for the Panel of Scorers, nor did the Petitioner highlight or indicate where they exist in his 
documentation. 3 Instead, the Petitioner references BCCI's rules and regulations relating to umpire 
panels rather than scorer panels. Moreover, although I I claimed that "[e Jach Panel consists of 
the individuals who have attained the highest level of expertise and achievement in the respective category of match officials," the evidence does not corroborate his claims. Furthermore, neitherO 
nor the Petitioner demonstrated that nationally or internationally recognized experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with the Panel of Scorers. In fact, the Petitioner asserts 
that "[p]]assing these examinations is the key event," reflecting that membership is based on passing 
examinations rather than by being judged by recognized national or international experts for 
outstanding achievements. 4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization. 5 The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion 
based on that he "served as a judge of USA Cricket exhibitions in the United States in the role of an 
umpire" and references evidence indicating his designation as an umpire for cricket matches in the 
United States. The record contains background information regarding cricket, including the roles of 
3 Page 14 of BCCI 's rules and regulations reflect that "'Match Official' includes Umpires, Match Referees, Observers, 
Statisticians, Ground Staff and Scorers so appointed by the BCCI or a Full Member from time to time," indicating separate 
and distinctpositions and responsibilities within BCCI. 
4 The record also contains evidence showing that the Petitionerpassedscreeningtests to serve on umpire panels. However, 
the Petitioner did not establish that membership with BCCI's umpire panels require the judging of outstanding 
achievements by recognized national or international experts rather than passing examinations. 
5 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
3 
cricket umpires. Specifically, "[t]he umpires indicate no balls, byes, leg byes, wides, boundaries and 
sixes to the scorers, who keep a running total of the runs scored, while the match referee rules on 
disciplinary matters," and "[t]he third umpire uses TV replays to rule on run outs, stumpings, whether 
a ball has hit the ground before beingcaughtorwhen itis unclear if the ball has crossed the boundary."6 
Again, this regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not 
reflect the duties of a cricket umpire involve evaluating or judging the work of other cricket judges or 
the skills of cricket competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring 
sportsmanlike competition. See Victorov v. Barr, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020) 
(finding a rational connection between the regulation's phrase "judge of the work of others" and the 
AAO's distinction between that and rule enforcement). Without further documentation, such as 
evidence that he exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that the role of a cricket umpire includes participating as a judge of the work of 
others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships and judging. 
Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we 
need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these 
issues. 7 
N eve1iheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
SeeMatterof Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994)(concludingthatevenmajorleague 
level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
6 See Exhibit A6 submitted at initial filing. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter o/L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No.101- 723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b )(l)(A)oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Therecorddoesnotcontain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 8 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he intends to continue to work in his area of expertise under section 203(b)(l )(A)(ii) of the Act and 
whether he will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See Bagamasbad,429 at25-26;sccalsoL-A-C-,26 I&NDec. at516,n.7. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483327 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 08, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of microbiology, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , he 
did not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his doctor of philosophy in human pathology and infectious diseases from [ l University in 2018. Since 2019 he has been employed by Universit l I as a postdoctoral research fellow in the Department of Bioengineering's I . 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of these ten criteria 
and the record supports this determination. The Petitioner's documented service as a peer reviewer 
for professional journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied 
field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications in his field and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Finally, the Director determined that Petitioner has provided sufficient evidence to establish the nature 
and significance of his scientific contributions in the field and has demonstrated that he satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record reflects that the Petitioner's culturomics approach 
atl I lab represents an original contribution of major significance in the area of gut 
microbiome research that has greatly aided other researchers in the field and resulted in promising 
therapeutic products. Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for 
this classification. 
As discussed above, the record establishes that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the 
microbiology field through his novel approach to culturing the human microbiome and discoveries 
related to bacteriotherapy development, and it shows that many other researchers have used his 
research as a foundation for their own important breakthroughs. The record further contains evidence 
of the Petitioner's continued contributions and demonstrates that his discoveries have earned him 
sustained acclaim in this field. 
For example, Professor! the Petitioner's doctoral advisor, explains that the Petitioner's 
work enhanced bacterial identification in hospital and clinical settings by providing the mass spectra 
of all isolated organisms to the I I database, a bacterial identification system, greatly 
improving the speed identification of bacterial organisms. I a researcher at the 
University of utilized a novel bacterial strain isolated and described by the Petitioner to 
identify a novel microbiome signature of type 2 diabetes mellitus specific to Pakistani adults. I I a microbiologist and senior research scientist at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, 
described how he applied the Petitioner's culturomics approach to isolate representative microbial 
cohorts, including new species, in the gastrointestinal tract of pigs and broiler chickens to explore their 
therapeutic otential. a professor of immunology biology at the 
Universit and Coordinator of the European I network and the 
French _____ networks, asserts that the Petitioner's new method of culturomics and mass 
spectrometry-based identification of bacteria "revolutionized the field and launched the deep 
characterization of the human micro biota, supporting the development of live biotherapeutics to treat 
diseases or boost immunological responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors." While we need not 
accept unsupported conclusory assertions, 1 the evidence of record, including evidence not discussed 
in this decision, supports these conclusions. 
Director ofl lab and the Petitioner's direct supervisor, states 
that the Petitioner was recruited to join based on his novel approaches to culturing known and 
previously uncultured bacterial species from the human microbiome. He explains that the Petitioner's 
work in human microbiome construction has helped to decipher what has been known to scientists as 
microbial "dark matter," organisms that microbiologists are unable to culture in the laboratory due to 
1 See 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States. 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
3 
lack of knowledge or ability to supply the required growth conditions, and he has discovered novel 
bacterial organisms never cultured before nor known to have existed as part of the human commensal 
microflora. His work has helped establish an innovative culturomics platform capable of creating a 
defined bacterial community from human fecal material to treat specific diseases. For example, 
lab is using those microbial communities to manufacture the therapeutic product 
material to treat malnutrition in lactating mothers and children and has 
received grant funding from the _______ Foundation for upcoming clinical trials. I J emphasizes that the Petitioner designed all culturomics experiments needed to isolate and 
purify the needed organisms for those products, executed and managed the platform, and was pivotal 
in attracting grant funding. The Petitioner is also collaborating with to help melanoma 
cancer patients who are non-responsive to cancer treatments by creating defined microbial complexes 
that optimize their gut health to enhance their response to commonly used immunotherapy. His 
resultant therapeutic productJ I has had a favorable response in the first round of experiments 
in mice. I I states that other prestigious institutes have requested products designed from 
the Petitioner's bacterial communities for their own research develo ment including I __ 
University. University of _____________________ University, and I University, further reflecting the national recognition the Petitioner has earned for his 
work in the field and its continuing influence in opening additional avenues for research. 
Regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored a significant 
number of articles in distinguished professional journals. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent 
to scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's 
articles is an important indicator of the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. In this case, the Petitioner offered a Google Scholar report 
reflecting a substantial number of citations to his published work, and that several of his articles have 
been particularly influential. Overall, the number of research articles he has coauthored and their high 
rate of citation are commensurate with being among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has obtained significant attention from other experts in his field 
that is reflected in the citations to his work, has continued to publish scholarly articles in distinguished 
professional journals, has received invitations to present his work at international conferences, and has 
completed independent requests to review a number of manuscripts for renowned professional 
publications. These are all positive indications of the sustained acclaim he has received for his 
contributions. In light of the evidence discussed above and other corroborating evidence of record, 
the Petitioner's achievements are commensurate with sustained national and international acclaim at 
the very top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, he has established 
that he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
4 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24527725 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 09, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional baseball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in '"that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as a professional 
baseball player. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following four criteria: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• High salary or remuneration; and 
• Membership in associations. 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published 
material about the individual in professional or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
record reflects the Petitioner received nationally recognized awards. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner met the awards criterion. However, as discussed below, we find the record 
does not support the conclusion that the published material criterion has been met. 
In denying the petition, the Director found the Petitioner's evidence for two regulatory criteria was 
insufficient, membership in associations and high salary in relation to others in the field. On appeal, 
2 
the Petitioner argues that he meets both evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the evidence in the 
record, while we find that the Petitioner has established he meets the high salary criterion, he has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit.1 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the evidence 
to support that conclusion; upon de novo review, however, we find the record fails to establish 
eligibility for this criterion. 
Many of the articles submitted do not include the author or date of the material, thereby not meeting 
the plain language of the criterion. For instance, the Petitioner submitted two articles, one ublished 
in Diario Libre titled, dated and 
another article published in El Nacional titled, dated 
2021, both of which report the Petitioner is expected to play his first major league baseball game 
and provide background about the Petitioner's baseball career. Neither article identifies an author, 
therefore, such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring "the title, date, and 
author of the material". Id. Another article published by Listin Diario titled, 
does not include the date of the article, therefore, also not 
meeting the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted several articles and social media posts, most of which briefly mention the 
Petitioner's participation in games or re ort his game la s and batting results. For instance, the 
Petitioner submits an article dated 2022 b titled, I 
which explain ns Dominican Republic's plays 
during its ame a ainst Venezuela for the 2022 ames, while briefly mentioning the 
Petitioner, ___________________ The Petitioner submitted other 
similar articles and screen shots of online social media websites. Many of these articles report on the 
plays made by the entire team, and do not single out the Petitioner. Although mentioning the 
Petitioner, the material is not about the Petitioner and is instead about the team. 
The reporting of the Petitioner being part of a team's roster is also not published material about the 
Petitioner. The Petitioner submitted material listing the players selected to play with the I 
___________ including the Petitioner as the catcher. These articles, while 
mentioning the Petitioner, report the team's player roster and are about the team. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screen shots of YouTube videos indicating these videos are 
interviews and information about the Petitioner. This regulatory criterion requires "published 
material" in professional or major trade publications or other major media and "the title, date, and 
author of the material." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner, however, did not include the 
regulatory required titles, dates, and authors of the material. Furthermore, the still images, 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that his appearances amounted to published 
material about him, relating to his work.2 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. We therefore withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations.3 
The burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, 
but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working 
in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that 
salary would be considered high in the United States.4 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to his salary as a professional baseball player with two 
teams in the United States. The Director 
found the evidence suggests the Petitioner's earnings are at the low end in comparison to the major 
league players. The Director also pointed out that the record does not include objective earnings data 
for professional baseball players in Dominican Republic, with an article indicating the difficulty in 
obtaining levels of compensation for the players. Without objective evidence, the Director found that 
the evidence did not demonstrate the Petitioner commanded a high salary in Dominican Republic. 
The Petitioner argues that the letter from sufficiently demonstrates the Petitioner 
commands a higher salary since it states the monthly salary for other professional baseball players in 
the Dominican Republic is lower than the Petitioner's salary. The Petitioner provided articles related 
to salaries of baseball players and average persons living in Dominican Republic, and a letter from I !relating to the Petitioner's current monthly earnings and the average salary of other 
players. The letter states the Petitioner earns a monthly salary of DR$350,000, while "[t]he average 
salary of a professional baseball player who plays the same position as I lin the professional 
league of baseball from the Dominican Republic ranges between DR (Dominican currency) $50,000 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (explaining evidence may 
include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular and academic journal articles, 
books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and 
the person's work). 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); see also Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); 
Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
(considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
4 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) Appendix. 
4 
and DR$200,000 monthly." The letter explains, I I is paid higher than most due to his 
excellent performance and skills on the field .... " An article published by elDinero titledl I 
by !describes the difficulty in obtaining salary information 
for professional baseball players in the Dominican Republic, "Officially knowing the salaries in 
Dominican baseball is not an easy task. The Dominican professional baseball teams handle the issue 
with discretion to avoid friction between players .... The minimum fluctuates between RD$60,000 to 
RD$70,000 per month for lower category players." The letter from stating the 
Petitioner's salary with the team and comparing it to others in the league, reviewed in conjunction 
with the article providing the minimum salary of baseball players in Dominican Republic and 
explaining the difficulty in obtaining salaries of baseball players in the Dominican Republic, are 
sufficient to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the Petitioner meets the criterion. 
We find that the evidence in the record is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we 
withdraw the Director's finding on this issue and conclude that the Petitioner's evidence establishes 
that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director found the record does not establish that the Petitioner plays for an organization that 
requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner clarifies that he submitted evidence based on his memberships with 
Dominican Professional Baseball League {LIDOM) and Major League Baseball (MLB) arguing these 
"organizations represent the highest level of professional baseball played in the Dominican Republic 
and in the United States, respectively." The Petitioner argues on appeal that while MLB and LIDOM 
do not have bylaws specifying the qualification of their reviewers, each requires outstanding 
achievements of its members which are judged by experts. It is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate 
every element of a given criterion, and we will not assume that every professional team requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their fields. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from LI DOM, media articles relating to operations staff for some 
LIDOM teams, and informational materials about LIDOM, including its teams, history, and television 
broadcast coverage. While the Petitioner argues he is a member of LIDOM, the letter from LIDOM 
states that the Petitioner is a player for one of LIDOM's member teams, The 
letter explains the eligibility requirements for a player to be selected to a LIDOM team. A player must 
first play rookie ball and then play 18 months with middle class A. After meeting these requirements, 
LIDOM does not select players to its teams, instead it is "the responsibility of each team's manager 
and its operations staff, which is made up of expe1is in the sport." The record does not demonstrate 
the selection requirements of players for ______ or LIDOM, or the outstanding 
achievements required for being selected to the team. Also, while the letter indicates the operations 
staff for each team who selects team players is made up of experts in the sport, and the articles 
5 
submitted provide information of some teams' operating staff, the evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's membership to I I or LIDOM, was judged by 
recognized national or international experts in his field. 
For the Petitioner's MLB membership, the record includes two letters from I lot thel I 
informational material about MLB's history, and articles explaining that a small percentage of 
baseball players play for professional teams. While the Petitioner argues he is a member of MLB, the 
record indicates the Petitioner is a player for the which is a member of MLB. As 
pointed out by the Director, the letter from states that only the top players with extraordinary 
abilities are part of MLB since players must be "exceptionally skillful, talented and disciplined." We 
ith the Director's findings that the record does not demonstrate that being a member of the 
requires outstanding achievements, but instead refers to the players' skills and discipline. 
ovides the names and experience of some members of the I I staff who 
select players to demonstrate they are experts in the field; however, the evidence does not demonstrate 
the outstanding achievements required to be a player for thel I 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
In summation, the record does not satisfy at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
6 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7868093 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Greco-Roman wrestler and wrestling coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least 
three. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to the 
United States to continue work in his area of expertise, or that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence demonstrates that he meets 
four of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and that he is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Greco-Roman wrestler and coach who has competed primarily in his native country 
ofl I He has a bachelor's degree in sport (wrestling) from thel I Institute of 
Physical Culture. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to 
four criteria, including lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, membership 
in organizations that require outstanding achievements, published materials, and original athletic 
contributions of major significance. However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
any of these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets all four criteria, discussed separately below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets 
at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to establish 
every element of this criterion. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the 
prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
2 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner provided copies of the following certificates as evidence of his awards in athletic 
competitions:2 
• Two 1st place Diplomas ~ weight category) awarded at "Championship II of 
Ministry of Defense of the Republic of I I on Greco-Roman Wrestling" t===:J 
2014 and 2015) 
• 3rd de ree Diploma recognizing the Petitioner as "the ~rize-winner of the championship of 
L-------1~~~,co-Roman wrestling," awarded by the I I Ministry of Culture and 
Tourism , 2011). 
• 1st place Diploma .,__---='weight category) awarded by'! t" at the "International 
Freestyle Wrestling Tournament dedicated to the Day ofRemembrance'~l999). 
• 2nd category Diploma for 2nd place at the "open championship of the on Freestyle 
Wrestling among schoolchildren" I !weight category) awarded by th Physical 
Education and Sport Committee (no date). 
• 3rd category diploma for 76th place in "the international tournament on Greco-Roman 
wrestling among juniors born in 1982-83," awarded by the Committee for Physical Education 
and Sports o~ 1(2000). 
The Petitioner also provided certificates that did not appear to qualify as "prizes or awards" as they 
did not indicate his placement in athletic competitions. For example, the record reflects that he 
received a certificate "in recognition and appreciation" for his contribution to the success of the Asian 
Junior Wrestling Championship in 2014, and a certificate of participation in the Cadet Asian 
Championships in 2013. The remaining certificates included a diploma for participation in an 
international Greco-Roman tournament sponsored by the "Central Council of the I I 
Volunteer Sports Society oti I' which does not clearly indicate that he placed in his weight 
category, and a certificate for a first place finish in a boxing event, which is not in his claimed area of 
extraordinary ability. 
The Director requested additional evidence to establish that the submitted certificates demonstrate the 
Petitioner's receipt of nationally or internationall reco nized awards for excellence in his field. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted a letter from President of thel I Wrestling 
Association. I I identifies the,__ __ ___, Championship andl I Cup as major 
athletic competitions in wrestling that are held only once per calendar year. He farther notes that 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 At the time of filing. the Petitioner provided an index which listed the Beneficiary's awards and other diplomas and 
corresponded to the ten ceitificates that accompanied it. On appeal, counsel's brief includes a list of 13 first, second, and 
third place finishes which includes several awards that did not appear on the original list, and for which no supporting 
evidence has been provided. For example, the new list indicates that the Beneficiary achieved first and second place 
finishes at ·I I Championships" in 1999, 2000, and 2003, awards which were not mentioned previously. 
Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter 
of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with 
independent evidence. 
3 
wrestling competitions i~ I are divided into five different ranks and levels, depending on their 
"scale and sporting siisificance" as determined by the I I Ministry of Physical Culture and 
Sports. I s letter goes into considerable detail regarding the different levels of competition 
and discusses at length what is required to earn a "Master of Sport" title in wrestling inl I a 
title the Petitioner does not claim to possess. I I does not, however, address the specific 
competitions in which the Beneficiary received award certificates, the competition rank or level assigned 
to those competitions, or the national or international recognition afforded to those awards. 
We acknowledge that one of the Beneficiary's certificates mentions that he received a "3rd degree 
diploma" as "the prize-winner of the championship ofl I on Greco-Roman wrestling" in 
2011. However, according to the certificate, the award was given by the "Ministry of Culture and 
Tourism." I I indicates that an organization or a ency or with a different name, the 
"Ministry of Physical Culture and Sports," overns the Championship that is regarded as 
the sport's top athletic competition within~---~ Because of this difference in the sponsoring 
organizations' names, we cannot determine if the Beneficiary's certificate indicates his receipt of an 
award at the officially sanctioned national championship in his sport. 
Another letter from thel I Wrestling Association indicates that the Petitioner received a 
bronze medal at the "championship ofl I" in 2011, and lists other medals won by 
the Petitioner which appear to correspond to the submitted certificates, but it does not offer any further 
commentary on the national or international recognition of these awards. Further, we note that the 
Petitioner did not provide photographs of any medals received in competition, despite the Director's 
request for this evidence, nor does the record contain other supporting evidence, such as official event 
results recorded or published by the sport's national federation. 
In support of this criterion the Petitioner also provided evidence that thel I Wrestling 
Association is recognized as] Is national federation by United World Wrestling (UWW), as 
well as copies of the UWW's constitution and published "International Wrestling Rules." However, 
the Petitioner did not explain how this documentation supports its claim that the Beneficiary received 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. The submitted evidence does 
not indicate that the competitions in which he received certificates were sponsored by the national 
federation or the UWW, nor does it include information regarding the level of recognition associated 
with the award certificates. 
The Petitioner also submitted an evidentiary exhibit which is claimed to contain "background 
information regarding previous winners." The Petitioner included biographies and competition results 
for four wrestlers from I I but did not elaborate on his reference to them as "previous 
winners." For example, the evidence did not show that these athletes had competed in the same 
competitions in which the Petitioner himself had won awards. Rather, the evidence reflects that they 
competed and medaled in events such as the European Championship, Asian Games, World 
Championships and Olympic Games. Even if they also received medals in the same events as the 
Petitioner, the fact that they went on to achieve success in major international competition does not 
support a claim that the Petitioner himself received nationally or internationally recognized awards. 
Despite the Petitioner's claims on appeal that he submitted "all reasonably available evidence" 
pertaining to his awards, most of the evidence provided does not relate to the specific certificates he 
4 
won or demonstrate their national or international recognition in the field of wrestling. The documentary 
evidence as a whole does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's certificates were nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided testimonial evidence from two wrestlers who indicate that they have 
won nationally and internationally recognized awards and attribute their success to the Petitioner's 
coaching. In addition, a letter from a representative ofthd._ ___ ___,lwrestling Association mentions 
some of the awards and prizes received by athletes claimed to be coached by the Petitioner. However, 
in order to satisfy the plain language of the regulation, the Petitioner must establish that he himself 
was the recipient of nationally or internationally recognized awards; awards received by his students 
do not satisfy this criterion. 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he "has been a member of prestigious associations which clearly require 
outstandin1 achievements of their members," and contends that "USCIS erred in not finding that I National Wrestling Team requires of its members outstanding achievements in the field of 
wrestling and/or that the Team does not qualify as an organization." 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that he was a member of the I !national 
wrestling team. The evidenpe submitted in support of this criterion consisted of a letter fromD I I Vice President of thd_ I Wrestling Association. As noted in the Director's decision, 
this letter identifies the Beneficiarr s dates of emplorVent as a coach for two different organizations, 
including the sports association ._ _______ _.f l I notes that "Sports Association l I' for Greco-Roman wrestling is a member of sports wrestling in I I' and states 
that "the members of the society won medals and cups at republic, international competitions." The 
letter lists the names of athletes who trained at I I and their achievements I I 
states the achievements of these athletes "confirm the outstanding reputation of the Sports Association I f as sports organization." 
This evidence, which makes no mention ofthel !national wrestling team or the Beneficiary's 
membership on that team, does not support the Petitioner's claims that he qualifies based on his 
membership on a national team in his sport. Further, the record does not establish that his employment 
as a coach at a sports club that trained successful competitive wrestlers constitutes "membership in an 
association" that requires outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts in 
the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
5 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of one article titled '------------~--~-----' 
which was published in the newspaper Enlightenment on.___~ 2019, more '---------~ than ten months after he filed this petition. 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1), the Petitioner must establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time 
of filing. While articles published at a later date may be considered in a final merits determination as 
evidence of sustained national or international acclaim, we will consider only articles that were published 
before the date of filing to establish eligibility under this criterion. A petition cannot be approved at a 
future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). 
As the Petitioner did not submit evidence of any published material about him and relating to his work 
in the field that pre-dated the filing of the petition, he has not met this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented in the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he "has made an original athletic contribution of major significance 
to his field of endeavor by virtue of winning major national and international competitions." He 
maintains that he provided "extensive expert testimonials confirming that his accomplishments in his 
athletic field constitute a contribution of major significance to the sport of Wrestling." The Petitioner 
asserts that the Director did not give appropriate weight to "credible expert testimony." 
The Petitioner submitted three letters in support of this criterion, all of which address his contributions 
as a coach. One of these letters is authored by two Greco-Roman coaches associated with the I !Wrestling Association. The coaches mention the Petitioner's coaching position for the 
sports association I I and note that he "showed himself a competent coach and an 
experienced mentor." They also praise the Petitioner's "high organizational skills," his ability to 
"skillfully prepare[] athletes for competitions," and note that he "constantly studies and introduces 
innovations of modem sports development." 
The other two letters are froml I national team members I I 
who indicate that the Petitioner coached and trained them . ._I ______ _.I states that the Petitioner 
helped him prepare for major competitions and states that the Petitioner "has impressed many people 
with his experience, sports potential and excellent knowledge of sports" and "is well-trained in the 
sphere of sport legislation." '--------~ states that the Petitioner is known for his "high 
technical and tactical knowledge in the area of wrestling" and that he has worked with many athletes 
who competed at the highest international levels. He further states that the Petitioner's "training 
method and his achievements as a Greco-Roman wrestling coach represent a significant contribution 
to the field of Greco-Roman wrestling." 
6 
The letters submitted primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's skill as a coach without 
providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. They do not, for example, describe the "innovations" he brings to his training methods 
or techniques in support of a claim that he has made an original contribution, nor do the letters explain 
how his training methods or techniques have had an impact in his sport beyond the individual athletes 
with whom he has worked. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the letters indicate that the Petitioner has coached competitive wrestlers who competed in 
international athletic events at a high level, he has not shown how these activities equate to "original" 
athletic contributions of major significance in the field. According to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), the contributions must be not only original but of major significance. The testimonial 
evidence indicates that the Petitioner is a skilled athlete and coach whose students have achieved some 
notable success in their careers. Although the Petitioner has earned favorable recognition from the 
authors of the submitted letters, the evidence submitted does not demonstrate that his impact on the 
sport is commensurate with an original athletic contribution of major significance in the field. 
Accordingly, this criterion has not been met. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
As explained above, the submitted evidence does not satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria. As 
the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documented that he meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the 
appeal will be dismissed. 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve 
the Director's separate determinations that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to 
"continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" and this his entry would "substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. 
7 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20234562 
Motion on Administrati ve Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes itmnigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual 's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determina tion and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentati on is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detenninati on); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C.2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(l )(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically , a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings , it is the 
petitioner 's burden to establish by a preponderanceofthe evidence eligibility for the requested benefit 
MatterofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under seven categories of evidence : awards under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) ,judgingunder 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , display 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) , and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner maintained her eligibility for these seven criteria. In denying the petition, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one criterion relating to judging. 
On appeal, as discussed in our decision, the Petitioner asserted that she met the other six claim criteria, 
but she only specifically addressed two of the criteria, published material and display. Because the 
Petitioner made no specific allegation of error regarding the awards, original contributions of major 
significance, leading or critical role, and high salary criteria, we considered those issues to be 
abandoned . Furthermore , although the Petitioner claimed that she "will submitted additional argument 
and supporting evidence within 30 days," the record did not contain such submission, more than eight 
months later from our decision. 
As such, we considered the record to be complete and adjudicated the appeal based on the record in 
the proceeding. We determined that although the Petitioner demonstrated her eligibility for the display 
criterion, we concluded that she did not establish that she met the published material criterion. Because 
the Petitioner did not submitthe required evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
met at least three of the ten lesser criteria, we did not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In addition, we reserved the issue relating to her intent 
to continue her work in her area of expertise in the United States under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) of the 
Act, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that "[n]either AAO manual, Form I-290B instructions or the federal 
regulations in Code of Federal Regulations related to the adjudication by AAO cover the legal 
principle of abandonment of the issues on appeal" and claims that "[b ]y imposing a new standard that 
is not explicitly stated in the regulations or instructions , the agency has violated due process." The 
AAO Practice Manual states: 
2 
( f) Statement or Brief Identifying an Error 
An appeal must specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of 
fact in the unfavorable decision on Form I-290B, in a written statement attached to 
Fonn I-290B, in a brief, or in another document submitted with the appeal. 
General assertions that fail to specifically identify any error may result in the AAO 
summarily dismissing an appeal. The appellant must state any arguments it wishes the 
AAO to consider on appeal, even if the arguments were previously raised in earlier 
filings before the field office. 
(footnotes omitted). AAO Practice Manual, Ch. 3. 7(f), https://www.uscis.gov/aao-practicemanual. 
In addition, the instructions on page 4 of Form I-290, Notice of Appeal or Motion, as well as on the 
actual form on page 2, state: "Provide a statement that specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion 
of law or fact in the decision being appealed." See https://www.uscis.gov/i290b. Further, the 
regulation at 103 .3(a)(l )(v) provides for appeals "to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
As discussed in our prior decision and indicated above, the Petitioner provided a statement 
accompanying her appeal that specifically challenged the Director's findings relating to only two 
criteria -published material and display. Her statement did not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion of law or statement of fact as it pe1iained to the other four claimed criteria. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not submit additional arguments and suppmiing evidence subsequent to the filing of her 
appeal in which she indicated on Form I-290B and in her statement that she would do within 30 days.1 
Because the Petitioner did not allege such errors relating to the awards, original contributions of major 
significance, leading or critical role, and high salary criteria, we did not address those prior eligibility 
claims and considered them to be abandoned. 
Fmihermore, the Petitioner did not establish that we imposed a new standard in considering her prior 
eligibility claims not raised on appeal to be abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 
n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse 
decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att 'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's 
claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). See also Greenbriar, Ltd. 
v. City of Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, l 573n.6 (11th Cir. l 989)(statingthat passing references to issues 
are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, and such issues are deemed abandoned). We note that 
although the Petitioner claims that these "cited cases referred to removal proceedings rather than 
administrative proceedings and do not share the same issues," Hristov involved an appeal of an AAO 
decision relating to an extraordinary ability petition. Regardless, we generally do not address issues 
1 Appellants may, but are not required to, submit a supplemental brief or additional evidence. If the appellant elects not to 
file a b1ief, the appeal must otherwise specifically identify any erroneous conclusionoflaworfact. AAOPracticcManual, 
supra, at Ch. 3.8. 
3 
that are not raised with specificity on appeal. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed 
to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Getty Oil 
Co. v. Andrus, 607 F.2d253, 255-56 (9th Cir.1979) (the court concluded that the law does not require 
the plaintiff to affirmatively waive claims; instead, he waives claims if he fails to assert them on 
appeal). 
The Petitioner also contends that we "exercise de nova review," which "means that the AAO looks at 
the record anew and is not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision" and "may address 
new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision." We exercise de nova review of all 
issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). 
However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our de nova review authority mandates or requires 
us to evaluate and address all previous eligibility claims or other prior arguments that were not raised 
or not contested on appeal. As in the case here, the burden remains with the Petitioner to establish 
eligibility and specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
previously claimed four criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b ). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we erroneously applied law or 
policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss her motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19795789 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist who has conducted numerous workshops and has displayed her work 
in galleries and exhibitions, primarily in Colombia. The Petitioner intends to continue working as a 
visual artist in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three of the ten criteria, namely: original 
contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . 
We agree, as the record establishes that the Petitioner has displayed her work in a number of galleries 
and exhibitions in Colombia. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous, and maintains that she 
meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise eligible for the classification sought. 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
2 
The Petitioner claims to have made original contributions in the field of visual arts, with a special 
emphasis on Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that she has 
pioneered new techniques inl land has developed a novel method of working withl land 
I lcolors, and submitted numerous letters of support from experts in her field in support of this 
assertion. In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the testimonial letters submitted 
were highly complementary of her work and professional accomplishments. However, the Director 
determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. He included quotes from several letters and emphasized that while 
they discuss the Petitioner's artistic vision and technical knowledge as applied to specific I 
and the letters lacked specificity as to how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field or 
how her techniques have been widely used or accepted within the field. The Director cited case law 
indicating that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, consider 
advisory opinions as expert testimony, but that USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding eligibility. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
The Petitioner asserts that she has develo ed a novel method in which she creates colored 
' She further claims that she _________________ __________ 
has pioneered new techniques in where she applies and combines different materials and __ _,lresulting in a I effect which she states is a I appearance. According to 
the Petitioner, she has displayed examples of her work which incorporate these techniques at numerous 
galleries and exhibitions, and has conducted workshops where she mentors other artists in the 
implementation of her methods. The Petitioner asserts that the letters submitted in support of the petition 
and in response to the Director's request for evidence support these assertions. 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's achievements in I I and I I but do not 
demonstrate that her contributions in the artisan field have made the required impact in the field. Upon 
review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
requirements of this criterion. 
We observe that the individuals who provided letters in support of the petition attest to the Petitioner's 
artistic and technical talents as a visual artist, highlight the techniques she has presented in various 
workshops during the course of her career, and contain assertions that she is well known and highly 
regarded within the artisan field. We have no reason to question the credentials of the industry experts 
who provided letters in support of the petition or to doubt the credibility of their statements or the 
sincerity of their praise for the Petitioner's work. However, the letters focus on the Petitioner's 
contributions to specific projects, workshops, or her overall standing in the field rather than 
specifically articulating how her contributions are of major significance in the field and have impacted 
subsequent work. We address a representative sample of the letters below but have reviewed and 
considered each one. 
curator of I Gallery inl I praises the Petitioner's work with 
both and She states that the Petitioner has held various exhibitions at her gallery, and 
praises her "excellent composition in each and every work where she has been well-known recognized 
for her work and beautiful pieces of art." While she describes the "great aesthetic sense and techniques" 
the Petitioner applies to her I lwork, and praises the Petitioner's development ofl I 
3 
techniques and I I' style which she claims "have been used by other I her 
statements do not demonstrate how the Petitioner 's specific contributions have impacted or influenced 
subsequent work in her field. While I generally discusses the Petitioner's novel methods 
and her success in her field, she does not provide specific, detailed information identifying or 
explaining the unusual influence her I I and methods have had in her field, or 
corroborating evidence demonstrating that such methods have been widely adopted and implemented 
by other artists as claimed. Having a diverse or unique skill set is not in-and-of-itself a contribution 
of major significance, unless a petitioner shows that she has used those skills to impact or influence 
the field. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has taught her methods through various classes and workshops . 
Director of the Museum in Colombia , states that in addition to 
exhibiting her and the Petitioner has taught her l method to the museum's 
students, "many of whom now are well-known" artists." I an Italian contemporary 
artist, states that she attended several of the Petitioner's workshops and praises her as a "unique artist and 
mentor," noting that "she perfectly blends the colors that are unique and she has perfect[ ed] them over 
the years."I I further states that she hopes that the Petitioner "has the opportunity to expose 
her unique art and continue to mentor other artists with her techniques which are so wonderful. ... " 
Colombian artist and stained glass designer_ ] who attended the Petitioner ' sl I 
workshops, states that "she demonstrated great ability to handle the I I theme,"' 
highlighting her precise and unique application of 'I and a high degree of I I in order creative original and beautifuH praises her work 
and claims that he implemented her techniques in several of his own projects. 
The authors of these letters attest to the talent of the Petitioner , but do not provide specific examples 
of how the Petitioner's teaching methods or landl I techniques have influenced the work 
of other visual artists, or otherwise equate to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Also, the submitted letters do not include an explanation as to how the Petitioner's choice of methods 
differs from that of other I I or I artists. The plain language of this regulatory criterion 
requires that the Petitioner's contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than limited 
to the persons that she teaches or mentors. See Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole). Moreover, while the authors praises the Petitioner's innovative methods 
pertaining to I and her I I ' method for I lthey do not identify and specific 
examples of how the Petitioner's methods have influenced the field ofl I and or 
otherwise constitute original contributions of major significance in the field. Vague, solicited letters 
from colleagues that do not specifically identify original contributions or provide specific examples 
of how those contributions influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. 
We further note that while several of the authors claim to have learned a great deal from the workshops 
they attended and praise her expertise and teaching methods, none of the authors indicate that the 
Petitioner has gained recognition for such methods or for significant contributions in the field. 
Generalized conclusory statements that do not identify specific contributions or their impact in the 
field have little probative value. See 1756, Inc. v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990) 
(holding that an agency need not credit conclusory assertions in immigration benefits adjudications). 
The submission of reference letters supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; 
4 
users may evaluate the content of those letters so as to detennine whether they support the 
petitioner's eligibility. Id. See also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008) (noting that 
expert opinion testimony does not purport to be evidence as to "fact"). 
Moreover, we note thar I she "hopes" that the Petitioner "has the opportunity to expose her 
unique art" and "continue to mentor other artists." The regulation requires that the Petitioner has already 
made major and significant impacts within her field. Furthermore, it can be expected that, to rise to 
the level of contributions of major significance, other artists would have already reproduced the 
Petitioner's methods and applied those methods in their work. Here, I I comments 
suggest that the Petitioner's methods have not yet been widely implemented and have not yet 
significantly impacted the field. 
The Petitioner also presented evidence regarding her success in the sale of her artwork. While the 
Petitioner's methods and individual pieces may be unique in the art world, she has not demonstrated 
how her work has influenced the field aside from being distinct from other artwork. While the letters 
in the record from buyers of her work indicate that her work is a favorite among various collectors, 
the Petitioner does not explain how being a favorite of collectors is having a discemable impact in her 
field. While any art with exposure such as the Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, 
she must also demonstrate that her contributions are of major significance in the field. To rise to the 
level of contributions of major significance, the Petitioner 's work can be expected to have an influence 
on similar artists and similar works of art. Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
With regard to the Petitioner's display of her work in galleries and participation in various art 
exhibitions, the regulations contain a separate criterion for display of work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases . 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Evidence relating to or even meeting the 
display criterion is not presumptive evidence that the Petitioner also meets this criterion. The 
regulatory criteria are separate and distinct from one another. Because separate criteria exist for artistic 
display and original contributions of major significance in the field, users clearly does not view the 
two as being interchangeable. To hold otherwise would render meaningless the statutory requirement 
for extensive evidence or the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate 
criteria. The Petitioner did not explain how her work has substantially impacted the visual arts field, 
has influenced the work of other artists, or otherwise equates to original contributions of major 
significance in the field. At best, the evidence shows that the art world has noticed the Petitioner's 
work and has considered it to be worthy of showing. This consideration, without evidence that her 
work also has affected and/or advanced the field in a significant way, is insufficient to show that the 
Petitioner's work constitutes "contributions of major significance in the field," as required under the 
plain language of the criterion. 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. The 
preceding references highlight their acquisition of her work, their display of her work in their respective 
galleries, and their admiration for her as a mentor, and her skills as a visual artist. However, they fail to 
provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's artwork and methods equate to original contributions 
of "major significance" in the field. As noted previously, users may, in its discretion, use as advisory 
opinions statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron lnt'l, 19 I&N Dec. at 795. 
However, users is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters supporting the petition is not 
5 
presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may evaluate the content of those letters as to whether they 
support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 795-796; see also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2. 
Thus, the content of the references' statements and how they became aware of the Petitioner's reputation 
are important considerations. Without additional, specific evidence showing that the Petitioner's original 
work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted her field, or has otherwise risen to the 
level of artistic contributions of major significance, we cannot conclude that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(ix) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner claims that she is highly compensated for the sale of her artwork. The record includes 
notarized statements from four collectors attesting that they have purchased pieces of the Petitioner's 
artwork for the collective sums of $3,000, $3,500, $4,000, and $4,000, respectively, between the years 
of 199 5 and 2020. The Petitioner also submitted photographs of pieces of art listing the value of each 
piece (ranging from $300 to $1,000 per piece) when sold, but the Petitioner's name is not listed in the 
photographs as the artist of those works. 
The record also contains testimonials from gallery owners attesting to the Petitioner's commercial 
sales while associated with each respective gallery. For example, lofl I Gallery 
states that the Petitioner's work drew sales of $6,000 between 2013 and 2015.I I of I I claims that the Petitioner was "linked" to his gallery for several years and that her works 
earned a total of $3,000 during that period; however, the time period in which the sales were accrued 
was not specified. I I ofl I Gallery indicates that the sale of the 
Petitioner's artwork by the gallery between 1995 and 2000 earned $3,500. 
Notwithstanding the above, this regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to demonstrate that she 
commands a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services "in relation to others in 
the field." The Petitioner provided limited documentation of her past remuneration for her artwork, 
and the record lacks comparative information to establish that she commands significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others in her field. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she 
satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
6 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a skilled visual artist specializing in the field ofl landl I and 
that she has gained recognition for her unique works or art as well as her mentoring abilities. But she 
has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international 
acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20577737 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 10, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b Xl)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As set forth below, we will reject the appeal. 
The record reflects that attornevl I who represented the Petitioner in the prior filing of 
Form I-140, filed Form I-290B (Notice of Appeal or Motion). However, her Form I-290B was not 
accompanied by the required Form G-28 (Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited 
Representative). 1 Although we sent a notice tol I informing her that we considered the 
Petitioner to be self-represented in the appeal proceeding because she did not submit a properly 
executed Form G-28l did not respond to our notice. 2 
Accordingly, the appeal itself must be rejected as improperly filed. Part 4, Section A of Form I-290B 
(Applicant's or Petitioner's Statement, Contact Information, Certification , and Signature) instructs the 
filer of an appeal based on an application or petition filed by an individual to complete this section. 
provided her information and signed her name in the Petitioner's signature box (subsection A.8.a). 
However , without a properly executed Form G-28, Form I-290B lacks the requisite signature from an 
1 Although! indicated onFormI-290BthatForm G-28 was attached, the record does not reflect that Form G-28 
was submitted with the appeal. 
2 In contrast to theappealnowbefore us, the Petitioner 's initialfilingofFonn I-140 was accompanied by Form G-28 that 
was properly signed by both and the Petitioner . ThatFonn G-28, however, is not valid for the subsequent appeal 
of the Director's denial decision, which requires the filing of a new Fonn G-28. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103 .3(a)(2)(v)(A)(2)(i) 
and 292.4(a). 
authorized signatory.3 Moreover, the absence of a proper signature invalidates the contents of the 
"Petitioner's Certification" that appears above the signature, in particular the closing sentence which 
reads, in pe1iinent part, as follows: "I ce1iify, under penalty of perjury, that I have reviewed this form 
... and all of this information is complete, true, and correct." In the alternative, we cannot consider the 
appeal filed by the Petitioner because the form does not contain his information and his signature, 
certifying that the information therein is complete, true, and correct. In fact, there is no evidence that the 
PetitionerreviewedFonn I-290B. 
Here, the only signature on Form I-290B is that of ,I who is not the "affected party" in this 
proceeding, notwithstanding her initial representation of the Petitioner, and therefore does not have legal 
standing to file the appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B). Further, the regulation at 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.3(a)(2)(v)(A)(l) states that "[a]n appeal filed by a person or entity not entitled to file it must be 
rejected as improperly filed. In such a case, any filing fee the Service has accepted will not be retumed."4 
Since ldidnot submit a properly executed Form G-28 with the appeal and the Petitioner did not 
file the appeal as the "affected party" in this proceeding, we will reject the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is rejected. 
3 The instructions for Form I-290B state that "[e]very form MUST contain the signature of the applicant orpetitioner(or 
parent, legal guardian, or authorized signatory, if applicable). See https://www.uscis.gov/i290b (last visited March 10, 
2022). 
4 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(a)(2)(v)(A)(2)(i) further provides that "[i]f an appeal is filed by an attorney or 
representative without a properly executedNoticeofEntry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative(Forrn G-28) entitling 
that person to file the appeal, the appeal is considered improperly filed. In such case any filing fee the Service has accepted 
will not be refunded regardless ofthe action taken." 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7722140 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 11, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been the concertmaster (first violin) for the.__ _____________ ____. 
since 2009. The Petitioner has not stated specific plans for employment in the United States. 
Before proceeding to specific evidentiary issues, we note the Director's finding that translations submitted 
by the Petitioner were not properly certified. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) requires every 
submitted foreign language document to include a full English language translation which the translator 
has certified as complete and accurate, and the translator's certification that he or she is competent to 
translate from the foreign language into English. The Director stated that "[t]he submitted translation[s] 
are not properly certified," but did not specify how they are deficient. 
The translator claimed fluency in English and Chinese, and certified that "all of the documents that are 
translated from Chinese to English attached herein are true and accurate." The Petitioner asserts that the 
certification meets all material requirements. In reviewing the Director's decision, the Director did not 
identify any specific translations that would have had greater weight if the translator's certification had 
been worded differently. The Director did not deny any regulatory criterion based solely on the 
certification of the translations. Therefore, even if the Director required too strict a standard for the 
wording of the certifications, this issue did not change the outcome of the decision. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claims to have met seven criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner no longer claims commercial success in the performing arts, 1 but asserts that he meets the 
other six claimed criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner 
has met two of the criteria (the fourth and the eighth). 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner states that an album of his dusic "~eceiJd the.__ ________ ___. Albums of the 
Year Award,' an award organized by thl Musicians Association. . . . It is a recognized, 
authoritative award in the music industry." The Director determined that "this appears to be a local 
award." 
The Petitioner, on appeal, asserts that the award is not local, but rather an "international prize" available 
to "ethnic Chinese world-wide." The Petitioner cites two examples of claimed international winners, but 
neither example is persuasive. One winner "is a Taiwanese singer-songwriter." The People's Republic 
of China does not recognize Taiwan as an independent nation, 2 and therefore the eligibility of a Taiwanese 
musician for a Chinese award is not evidence of the award's international character. The second example 
cited on appeal is "of Mongolian ethnicity," but the Petitioner had previously identified this same 
performer as "a Chinese singer, songwriter and composer of Mongolian ethnicity." 
The Petitioner does not cite any evidence that shows the award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
A list of winners does not establish the required recognition. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not provided 
information from the awarding entity to show the criteria for the award. 
The Petitioner has not established that he won a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner initially claimed membership in two associations: the I I and the Chinese Musicians Association, but on appeal he does n~o-t-pu_r_s_u_e_a_n_y_c_l_a-im_a_b_o_u_t-th-e~ 
latter membership. Therefore, we will only discuss the Petitioner's claim with respect to I I 
1 Because the Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal, we consider it to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at 
*1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
2 See https://www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-taiwan/ (last visited Feb. 26, 2020) 
3 
According to a translated printout from the organization's website, a musician seeking to join the .... l _ ___, 
must reside inJ land meet one of the following requirements:3 
Top three winners of major professional competitions held at or above the provincial and 
municipal levels (including winners of international professional competitions and the 
winners of third-class or above national professional competitions). 
[H]ave had a concert of individual works sponsored by a provincial or municipal level or 
above and received favorable comments. 
Amateur music workers and folk artists (including music intangible cultural heritage 
inheritors) with high artistic level and cultivation, who are recognized by the society and 
are representative. 
Music professionals with a bachelor's degree or above or an intermediate level or above, 
and having certain influence in relevant professional fields inJ I 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established that the ~ requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. The Director 
stated that the Petitioner relied on "material ... from Wikipedia and web portals or domains, which has 
no probative value in this proceedings [sic]," and on "improperly translated documents." 
While user-edited sites such as Wikipedia are not reliable as primary sources of information, this is not a 
blanket disqualification of all web-based information and evidence. An organization's own website is 
generally a reliable source for information about that organization's membership requirements, unless 
there are specific reasons to doubt the information on that website. And the Director did not specify what 
documents were "improperly translated," or identify specific shortcomings in the translations. 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner's appeal relies on an incomplete and selective reading of the Os 
membership requirements. ~Petitioner, on appeal, quotes from the requirements, but omits the 
information showing that the[__J is a local organization. Also, throughout the proceeding, the Petitioner 
has worded one of the membership criteria as follows: 
Possess music-related bachelor's degree and have practiced music professionally for more 
than 5 years ( or work at a mid-level music job) and has great influences in the musical 
field. 
The printout from D's website, however, does not show such a requirement. The closest thing to that 
passage is as follows: 
Music professionals with a bachelor's degree or above or an intermediate level or above, 
and having certain influence in relevant professional fields inl I 
3 Other requirements apply to non-performers employed in music-related fields, such as composers, educators, and recording 
engmeers. 
4 
"Certain influence" is not synonymous with "great influences." There are several different ways to 
qualify forD membership, and they require different levels of achievement and distinction. It is 
therefore tgnifirnt that the Petitioner has not established which of these qualifications he met in order 
to join th 
Also, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts tdge the 
qualifications of candidates forc=]membership. The requirement that members reside in I 
points strongly to the Obeing a local organization rather than one with national or international reach. 
The Petitioner has not established membership in an association in the field which requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines 
or fields. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted 18 articles published either in print or online between 2011 and 2018. The 
Director concluded that these articles do not meet the regulatory requirements for four reasons: 
• Some of the articles mention the Petitioner but are not about him and his work; 
• The publications are not professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
• The material appeared online rather than in print; and 
• The submission included "improperly translated documents." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it is "unsupported, arbitrary and unwarranted" to compare online 
news articles to user-edited sites such as Wikipedia. As noted above, the regulations do not give 
preference to printed material over online sources. Many respected publications have an online presence, 
and many print publications do not count as major trade publications or other major media. 
Notwithstanding the issue of online publications, the submitted articles are deficient for various reasons. 
For example, several articles have no credited author as required. Also, the Director was correct that a 
number of articles are not about the Petitioner. A Broadway World article from 2017 discusses tho I I The 749-word article ment10ns 
the Petitioner only once, identifying him as one of two concertmasters who will "co-present a lecture on 
the role of the concertmaster." This single mention does not mean that the article is about the Petitioner 
as required. 
But the overarching issue with all the articles is that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that 
the publications are professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner only 
submitted the articles themselves (with translations where necessary), which cannot suffice to show that 
any of the source publications meet the regulatory requirements. 
5 
Without evidence that the publications are professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner initially cited his participation in various juries and competitions. The Director found the 
Petitioner's evidence deficient for various reasons. On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute all of the 
Director's findings under this criterion, but contends that he performed qualifying judging work for a 
competition and through his duties as concertmaster. 
The Petitioner asserts that "the Director's denial ignored the [Petitioner's] participation as a juror for the 
10th I ts, also known as the Chinesd I Award for Music, Violin Competition, 
one of four nationally important art awards." The record documents the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge, which is sufficient to meet the requirements of the criterion. The significance of the judging 
activity would be a matter for discussion in the final merits determination, had the case proceeded that 
far. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed to have made a number of contributions through exchange programs, 
educational efforts, and collaborations with other musicians. In response to the request for evidence, he 
added more performances and educational efforts, plus a recording contract between the D and 
.__ ______ ~ ___ ....,I. In the denial notice, the Director found that the Petitioner had not 
established the major significance of any specific contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not revisit most of the previous specific claims. Instead, the Petitioner 
states: 
The Director's denial failed to take into account that [the Petitioner], as Concert Master 
First Violinist, will be leading th0to elevate and alter classical music to a whole new 
international level in combining Chinese and European classical music. This endeavor is 
an original artistic contribution of major significance in the world of classical music. 
Additionally, guidin~ in an effort to attract audiences world-wide is significant. 
Toward this goal, l_J andb , I [sic] have entered into a 
groundbreaking venture t9 have record for world-wide distribution. This is the first 
global record deal for a Chinese Orchestra ever. ... 
[The Petitioner] will be the very first Concert master to lead~in such a venture. The 
blending of Chinese and European classical music will be the first major significant 
venture ever taken. 
G 
Published material in the record documents the contract betweenOand thee=], and confirms that it is 
the "first global label deal for a Chinese orchestra." However, this coverage does not mention the 
Petitioner, either by name or by his title as concertmaster. Instpad.. the articles discuss the D's 
conducl°r (lho, with other orchestras, has previously recorded forLJ. The record does not establish 
that the s record deal witlC] is an original contribution by, or attributable to, the Petitioner, or that 
the Petitioner is individually a party to the contract. Furthermore, the record does not show that the 
Petitioner, rather than the conductor, is responsible for the creative direction of the orchestra. 
As shown above, the Petitioner refers to the impact of the recording contract in the future tense. It does 
not appear thaQhad issued anyD recordings at the time of filing. Therefore, whatever expectations 
the Petitioner may have regarding the recording contract, it is premature to attribute major significance to 
recordings that have not yet been issued, and possibly not yet recorded. 
Furthermore, the anticipated contributions are contingent on the Petitioner's continued involvement with 
an orchestra inl I which presumably would end if the Petitioner were to succeed in his intention 
to emigrate from China. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner submitted information about the role of the concertmaster in a symphony orchestra, and 
about concerts and festivals in which he performed. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied this criterion, because "the conductor, directors, executives, and so on" outrank the 
concertmaster, and because concerts and festivals are not organizations or establishments. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that the Director understated the Petitioner's role and responsibilities. 
An individual need not be the single highest-ranking member of an organization to play a leading or, 
especially, critical role. The record sufficiently establishes that concertmasters in general, and the 
Petitioner in particular, influence the sound of a given orchestra, particularly the string section. Such a 
role is more limited and technical than that of the conductor or musical director, but it is critical 
nevertheless. (One must actually perform these functions, rather than simply hold the title of 
concertmaster, but this is not an issue in this case.) 
The Director correctly determined that individual performances and events are not, in themselves, 
~nizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation, but the record supports a finding that the 
L_J has a distinguished reputation. Materials in the record credit tht;LJ' s current conductor, rather 
than its concertmaster, with raising the organization's profile in recent years, but the regulations do not 
require the Petitioner to be personally responsible for an organization's reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he has performed in a critical role with an organization with 
a distinguished reputation. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner has had the opportunity to perform with prestigious institutions and prominent musicians, 
but the record does not show that the Petitioner himself has risen to that same level of recognition, and 
the regulations do not provide for acclaim by association. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7881804 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 11, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a rhetorical linguist in the field of education , seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement of meeting at least three of the 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that she received a Ph.D. in linguistics in 2014 from the I !university of 
in Brazil, and that at the time of filing she was a visiting scholar at the L...-------r---~---~---, 
University of~---~----~ She states that her plans in the United States include 
"accepting a position at.__ ____ __. Unified District" after she gains teacher certification, and 
opening a consultancy to provide training in rhetoric and the Portuguese language. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she also meets three additional evidentiary criteria. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence 
in the record, we find that she does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence to establish that she was a recipient of the I !(Brazilian 
Service for Support to Micro and Small Enterprises) Entrepreneur Education award. A certificate 
documenting this award indicates that she received it on July 8, 2011 for "excellent performance in 
teaching speech courses." In his decision, the Director found that the evidence does not establish that 
this award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts thatl I is a national organization and that the award is national 
in scope, and that it submitted several media articles and other evidence which supports the award's 
recognition at the national level. However, we note that the record includes conflicting evidence about 
the status and scope of the award. First, in what appears to be a news release from I ldated 
May 11, 2018, it is announced that the agency is launching the first edition of the national l I 
Award for Entrepreneurial Education." Another article from a Brazilian website dated March 20, 2019 
1 The Petitioner does not contest on appeal the Director's finding that her membership in~I ---~ldoes not meet the 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
indicates that enrollment for the first edition of this prize has opened. These articles do not mention 
the awards! !previously granted, such as the Petitioner's issued seven years earlier, and the 
selection process for the national-level awards which they describe does not relate to that previous 
award. 
In addition, articles regarding previous awards issued b~ I refer to the same award being 
presented at the state level. For example, an article dated May 2, 2018, which appears to have been 
posted on the website of a military school in the cit ofl ,I indicates that it received "the I ~ward for Entrepreneurial Education 2nd edition." A second article states that 
another institution~ lin the state of received the award in 2018. And a third article 
concerning another institution's receipt of a.__ __ _, award includes a quote from an official of the 
receiving entity, noting that this was its first such prize received "at the state level." These articles 
indicate that the I I award was previously granted at the state and local level, possibly in 
addition to the national level. Further, as with the articles noted above, the references to a first edition 
and a previous second edition indicate that the recent information in the record regarding a national 
award does not apply to the award received by the Petitioner years earlier. It has therefore not been 
established that the award given to the Petitioner was national in its scope. More importantly, we note 
that the articles in the record originate from the websites of the institutions which received the 
respective awards, indicating that recognition for the award did not extend beyond the receiving 
organization. Therefore, upon review of the evidence initially submitted, as well as that submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), we find that it does not establish that the award 
received by the Petitioner is nationally recognized. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner served as a judge of theses and dissertations written by 
graduate students atl I We therefore agree with the Director's determination that she meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director stated in his decision that the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's claims to 
this criterion did not include scholarly articles, noting that the source of the materials submitted was 
not verifiable. However, the issue of whether an article is scholarly depends solely upon the content 
of the article and its intended readership, and is not dependent on whether it was published or in what 
type of media. On review of the evidence, we note that it includes the Petitioner's Ph.D. dissertation, 
as well as at two additional papers that include all of the hallmarks of scholarly papers. 2 In addition, 
we note that the evideny regarTng the Petitioner's dissertation indicates that the website on which it 
was published serves as s "digital library." This evidence sufficiently establishes that it was 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
3 
published in a professional medium where the works of other researchers and scholars would be 
published. Accordingly, based upon the evidence of the Petitioner's dissertation, we disagree with the 
Director and find that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she played either a leading or a critical 
role for a qualifying organization or establishment. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
the she is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is, 
in fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that she has contributed in a way that is 
of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of her role, but rather the performance in it that determines whether the role is critical. 3 
In support of her assertion that she played either a leading or critical role for I l the Petitioner 
submitted three reference letters from professors at the institution under whom she studied during her 
graduate and doctoral degree programs, and who were later her colleagues. These letters generally 
relay the Petitioner's skills and accomplishments, and two of the letters describe her as "a linguist of 
extraordinary ability," but they do not establish that she played either a leading or critical role at the 
institution . .__ ___________ __. notes that the Petitioner had a good relationship with her 
students and found solutions for challenging situations, and that her "extensive teaching experience 
had great assets to our program." ~---------------~ rites that the Petitioner 
"was successful in all her evaluations," and that as a member of the Orality and Writing Group (GEOE) 
of the Brazilian National Council of Research (CNPq) she conducted linguistics research on the I I language, "aiming at applying the result toward the teaching of this language." 
And I I verifies that the Petitioner taught a course on 
academic writing during her graduate studies and is a member o~ l the Brazilian association 
of linguistics. None of these letters indicate that, in her duties as a teacher and researcher atl I, 
the Petitioner served as a leader for the institution as a whole, or that the role she played was of 
significant importance to its activities. 
In responding to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also referenced her own statement letter. She 
indicates in that letter that she "spearheaded the growth and development of the linguistics education 
program, as well as performed important research for the school." However, this statement lacks 
sufficient detail regarding the impact of her work on] I overall, and is not supported by the letters 
discussed above or any other documentary evidence in the record. We therefore agree with the 
Director and find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
4 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18360658 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 11, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a state retirement system, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a fund manager, as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that the Beneficiary received a Master of Business Management from the I _ 
(Philippines) in 1998 and holds the designation of Chartered Financial 
Analyst. The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary since 2008, most recently in the position of 
Fund Manager Lead. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
evidence to establish that the Beneficiary met all of the four claimed evidentiary criteria. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Beneficiary met the evidentiary criteria pertaining to judging the work 
of others, authorship of scholarly articles, serving in a leading or critical role for an organization with 
a distinguished reputation, and high salary or other significantly high remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix). 
As the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. 1 In a final merits determination, the Director must examine and weigh all of the 
evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary has the 
high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 Specifically, the Director 
was required to evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated the Beneficiary's sustained national 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
2 
or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record demonstrates the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
In addition, on appeal the Petitioner contends that the Director erred "by denying the petition for the 
absence of particular types of predetermined evidence." We agree with that assertion. For example, 
regarding letters from the Beneficiary's employer and work colleagues, the Director's decision notes 
"a common deficiency within each of the letters as they expressed a great appreciation for [the 
Beneficiary's] work, abilities, and achievements, yet none sufficiently explained how any of his 
contributions were original or of major significance in the field. Nor does the [B]eneficiary make such 
an argument within any of his correspondence .... " The Director appears to be referring to elements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which can be satisfied with evidence of an individual's 
original contributions of major significance in their field. The record reflects that the Petitioner did 
not claim that the Beneficiary satisfies this evidentiary criterion. 
Similarly, the Director's decision states that "[n]o press or media coverage was shown in the evidence 
that would contribute to a finding that [the Beneficiary] has sustained national or international claim" 
and "[n Jo evidence was supplied to indicate [the Beneficiary] was the recipient of nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards .... " The Director seems to be referring to elements of 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii), which can be satisfied, respectively, with evidence of 
lesser national or internationally recognized awards and published material about the individual in 
certain media. Again, the record reflects that the Petitioner did not claim that the Beneficiary satisfies 
these evidentiary criteria. Because he neither claimed nor submitted evidence in support of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (v), it was inappropriate to analyze whether the Petitioner has 
shown evidence of the Beneficiary's awards, published materials, or contributions which were 
"original or of major significance" in his field, and to weigh the lack of such evidence as a negative 
factor in determining eligibility. 
In addition, we note that the Director had already determined that the Beneficiary's role with the 
Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires that the Petitioner 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has performed in a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations. The Director's subsequent statements, that the record did not reflect "that [the 
Beneficiary's] role was leading [ for the Petitioner] .... nor reflect his critical role performed for [ the 
Petitioner]," or "that his role[ s] for other organizations were considered leading or critical," were 
contradictory to this determination and not explained. 
Further, we find that the Director did not properly conduct a final merits determination in which he 
considered all the evidence together in its totality. For example, although the Director determined that 
the Beneficiary satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix), the evidence 
related to the judging and scholarly articles criteria is not examined and weighed in the final merits 
discussion. Because the Director did not consider this evidence in the final merits analysis, the 
decision did not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary is 
an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not 
adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based on the deficiencies discussed, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for further review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Beneficiary 
satisfied at least three criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record, 
including additional evidence the Petitioner has provided on appeal. The Director should evaluate 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7861482 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an acrobatic performer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 1 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordiriary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 nonimmigrant classification in 2018 and has been 
employed as an acrobatic performer in thel I show I I at the I I I I Between 2016 and 2018, the Petitioner worked as a I O I gymnastics 
coach in England and was employed in J-1 nonimmigrant status as the department head of gymnastics 
and fitness at a summer camp in Pennsylvania. The Petitioner completed his Bachelor of Science degree 
at I I University in England with a concentration in Sport Coaching. He also earned a 
professional qualification certificate in sport and exercise sciences. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
the criteria related to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, memberships in 
associations requiring outstanding achievements, published materials about him and his work in the 
field, leading or critical roles in organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations, and 
high salary or other remuneration. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. However, we find sufficient 
documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner received nationally and internationally 
recognized awards from I I gymnastics events at the junior level, and the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. For example, the Petitioner provided documentation 
showing that he received a bronze medal at the 2013 I I Chamf onship, a gold medal 
at the 2015 I I Chamlionship) and a silver medal at the 2016 I Gymnastics I I Competition (2016 . 
2 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his professional membershil with the 
International Gymnastics Federation (FIG), and as a member of the Great Britain I 
Gymnastics national team. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a 
member of an association, and that membership in the association is based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 2 
With respect to the Petitioner's FIG membership, the Petitioner provided evidence establishing that 
he has been a member of FIG since[==:]2015. His FIG membership card indicates that this 
membership category is for those participating in FIG-sanctioned events as a competitive gymnast. 
The Petitioner asserts that in becoming a member of the Great Britain National team "my ability was 
assessed by a committee in order to represent Great Britain and allow access to FIG." As 
acknowledged by the Petitioner, however, a governing body of the sport such as FIG "is a separate 
entity" than the Great Britain National Team. The Petitioner has not provided evidence (such as 
bylaws or rules of admission) showing that FIG requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the Petitioner's field or an allied one. 
However, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner demonstrated membership with 
the Great Britain national team, and that this evidence meets the membership criterion, and the 
Director's determination on this issue will be ghe Petitioner provided the aforementioned 
letter from I lof British Gymnastics. s CV indicates that he is the head coach of 
the senior and junior squads of the Great Britain gymnastics national team. He confirms that 
the Petitioner was a member of the national team between 2014 and 2016, and states as follows: 
I witnessed him achieving a gold medal atthe 20 d I Championships .
11 ~as part I I 
of the selection panel that chose him to represent Great Britain at the 2015 
Championships in I I Germany and at the 2016 I I Championships in 
China where I saw him win a silver world medal. 
The Petitioner meets this criterion based on his selection for Great Britain's national team by the national 
governing body in his sport, which can be considered a recognized national expert in the discipline. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this crirerion The Petitioner submitted 
several articles in support of this criterion. One article, titled t I 
~--------~ "was published by the website The Northern Echo in 2016. The submitted 
article is not about the Petitioner; it was written about the 2016.__ ______ __,gymnastics which 
was to be held in China shortly after the publication of the article. The article states that a four-man 
team which includes the Petitioner would be competing and mentions some of their recent competition 
results, but the Petitioner is not otherwise mentioned in the article. The article also indicates that the 
head of gymnastics from thd I Gymnastics Academy would be one of the team coaches and 
quotes him about the team's hard work at that academy. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In 
addition, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish that this publication, described 
as a "regional daily" newspaper is a professional publication, major trade publication or other major 
media in England. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the newspaper's website which states 
that it has a circulation of 44,062 copies but did not provide evidence showing how this circulation 
compares to other English publications. 3 
The Petitioner also submitted a 2015 article titled .__ ___________ ____. published by 
the website Sunderland Echo. As with the previous article, this article is not about the Petitioner; it 
was written about the 2015 ~-..------~Championships which were to be held in Germany 
shortly after the article's publication. The article states that six gymnasts from the I I 
Gymnastics Academy, including the Petitioner, will be competing and identifies the participating 
countries, but the Petitioner is not otherwise mentioned in the article. Further, we note that the author 
of the article is not identified, and the article is not accompanied by sufficient evidence that Sunderland 
Echo qualifies a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media in England. 
We also note that the Petitioner submitted several articles about him and his work. The article titled 
I , 0 I was written about the Petitioner's anticipated participation in the 
20161 j and the article titled'...._ __________ _.' reported that his team took 
second place in the competition. However, those articles do not identify their source, author or date. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted a I I 2013 online article titled '1 I 
~-------------~ ' published by Gazette Live and written about the Petitioner's 
selection to the Great Britain junior gymnastics squad, but the author of the article is not identified. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted several additional press releases and articles pertaining to the 
Petitioner's participation in the 2016 I I, 20151 I Championship, and 2013 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
~-----..,...0 lchampionship, and his receipt of a I IA ward in gymnastics, 
but these articles do not identify the author of the material, as required by the regulations. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based on his role with his current em lo 
'----------~--, specifically, as a performer in the roduction ,----'-----'-----,._ ____ __J 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the reference letter from .__ ________ __,demonstrates 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the 
organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is 
marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 5 
Upon review, the Petitioner has not shown that he performs a leading or critical role for 
Although the letter from I lthel !gymnastics coach for~------~ 
provides that the Petitioner 1s one of almost 100 performers for that proq.uctiop the Jetter ~oes not 
provide details on whether the Petitioner has had a leading or critical role in L_J I J praises 
the Petitioner's skills in two acts of the production. We note that his letter does not indicate that the 
production features the Petitioner's acts more prominently than the other acts. He indicates that the 
Petitioner performs as al I whose responsibility is to "ensure the safety of other 
performers being launched" into the air. He states that the Petitioner displays the "flawless technique, 
strength, and timing of an experienced I ~---~ t 
In another act called the I I" I I indicates the Petitioner "proved himself as [a] 
uniquely talented! I and dancer." I I provides that "[f]urther act integration can be 
expected for [ the Petitioner]." He states that the Petitioner's "contributions and character" are 
"valuable to the ongoing success of our crowd-pleasing production." I I~, however, 
does not provide specific information on the impact of the Petitioner's performance tol_J as a whole, 
such as but not limited to, specific information on increased revenues resulting from the Petitioner's 
performance. The letter also does not state that the Petitioner's title and asso~duties withinc=] 
rank him above those of other performers, or that the Petitioner's impact onL_J is more significant 
than those of other performers. I ts letter shows that the Petitioner is one of the valued 
performers in the productio~._ _______ _,~ but does not show that he has a leading or er~·, 
role in the D organization. Similarly, the signed employment offer between the Petitioner and 
does not indicate that the Petitioner has had a role in addition to being one of the performers in 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id at 10-11. 
5 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has 
earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar 
services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). The petition was filed in June 2019, and the Petitioner must establish his 
eligibility as of the date of filing. The supporting evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim. 
The Petitioner provided copies of his IRS Forms W-2 indicating that he earned $3,439 in 2018.6 The 
Petitioner also provided a paystub dated June 21, 2019, showing that the Petitioner was receiving a 
monthly salary of $5,000, or $60,000 per year. The Petitioner provided salary data from Neuvoo that 
indicates that the national average base pay for I I is $36,075, but it also indicates "most 
experienced workers make up to $58,500 per year." The Petitioner farther submitted data from 
CareerOneStop, indicating a median salary of $17.09 per hour or approximately $34,180 per year for 
"Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers, All Others," with those with earnings at 
the 75th percentile earning approximately $53,940 and the top 10% earning at least $85,660. Finally, 
the Petitioner provided data from www.bls.gov, indicating that the average hourly wage for 
"Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers, All Others" is $39.88 per hour or 
approximately $79,760 per year in the Petitioner's geographic area in Nevada. Overall, based on the 
information provided, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record indicates that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at 
least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after 
USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 
2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
6 The record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status in October 2018 and did not begin working for! I I until November 29, 2018. As a result, we acknowledge that his 2018 W-2 only reflected less t~h-an_o_n_e_fu_ll~ 
month of earnings. 
6 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1991). Here, re evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is highly educated in his field and that his gymnastics 
expertise is valued by thd I gymnastics community in both the United States and Great Britain. 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7863037 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a vice president of talent acqms1t1on, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as the Vice President of Talent Acquisition for~I ----~ 
I ,!which operates the 1 t chain of~-------~stores in the United States. He 
reviousl worked in employee learning and development and talent acquisition roles for German 
L-.....---------~·n~b~o=th~th4e United States and Ireland. Earlier in his career, the Petitioner worked 
for~ ________ __,, an Irish store chain. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria. Specifically, the Director determined that he provided evidence of his leading or critical roles 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and evidence that he has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in 
his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner Jet these tw} criteria. The Petitioner provided detailed 
letters from his current and former managers at,__ ___ _,and within thO organization sufficient 
to establish that he held critical roles with these companies. In addition, the Petitioner submitted 
documentation of his past earnings along with comparative wage information from several reliable 
sources sufficient to demonstrate that he received significantly high remuneration in comparison to 
others in his occupation who work in the same geographic area. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional evidentiary criteria, as discussed below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to establish 
2 
every element of this criterion. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the 
prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner provided evidence regarding the following awards, which he highlights on appeal: 
• 2019 I I HR Retailer Leader of the Year ( awarded to the Petitioner) 
• 2015 .__ ___________________ ___. National Training Award for 
Lea1ing I Development Organization of the Year ( awarded tOireland) 
• 2015 National Training Award for Best Leaming & Development Organization (Large 
500+1 (aw~arded toOireland) 
• 2015 National Training Award for Best Graduate/Internship Program (awarded toD 
Irelan&_. 
• 2013 l__JNational Training Award for Leaming and Development Organization of the Year 
( awarded to D Ireland) 
• 2013 D Nationf11-I1iaining Award for Best Leading & Development Organization (Large 
500+) (awarded tol_Jireland) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that his I I HR Retail Leader of the Year Award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
for excellence because it is "limited to members of that association and participants of that 
conference," and because the record otherwise lacked sufficient evidence demonstrating the national 
or international recognition associated with the award. With respect to the fivec=J National Training 
A wards received by D Ireland, the Director emphasized that the Petitioner was not the direct 
recipient of these awards, and therefore the evidence did not satisfy the plain language of the 
regulation. 
Regarding the Petitioner's receipt of the 20191 I HR Retail Leader of the Year award, the record 
contains his award certificate a hotograph of him holdinl the a1ard, and a letter froml I 
managing director of , the or anizer of the HR Retail Conference at which the 
Petitioner received the award. '-----~ states that there were "dozens" of nominations for the 
award, received from "around the Retail Globe," and that nominations were open to "any Indust{ HRI 
professional within the US and beyond." The Petitioner also provided a screenshot from the 
HR Retail website which indicates that the "first annual Retail HR Awards" were held in 2019. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that thel I HR Retail Leader of the Year award was not in fact 
"limited to members of that association and participants of that conference." We agree with the 
Petitioner that the evidence does not support the Director's finding that such limitations were placed 
on this award. The Petitioner also strongly objects to the Director's observation, apparently made in 
reference to his I I HR award, that "some of the evidence submitted did not contain source 
attribution and appeared self-manufactured." We agree and will withdraw the Director's statement, 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
as the Director did not identify the referenced evidence and we have not identified any evidence 
submitted with respect to this award that appears to be "self-manufactured." 
The Petitioner further states that the Director erred by observing that he failed to submit "probative 
evidence of major trade publications or other major media conveying that the I IHR Retail] 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor." Here, 
while we agree with the Petitioner that the regulations do not specifically require that an individual's 
awards be announced in major trade publications or in other major media, the Petitioner is required to 
establish the national or international significance and reclgnitiol associated with the award. The 
Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that the HR Retail Leader award, which 
appears to have been awarded for the first time in 2019, is rdgardel as a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in his field. The fact that th HR Retail conference organizers 
accepted nominations on a national or international basis for its inaugural awards does not establish 
that the award itself has a reputation as a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. 
Therefore, we agree with the Director that the record does not establish the level of recognition 
associated with hicl I HR Retail Leader award or whether it is recognized beyond the industry 
conference in which it was given. 
For the remaining awards listed by the Petitioner, we agree with the Director that they were awarded 
to his former employer,~Ireland, not to the Petitioner himself. According to the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that an individual petitioner is 
the actual recipient of the prizes or the awards. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner through counsel, 
emphasizes that he "submitted evidence that his programs and initiatives led D Ireland to receive 
several nationally recognized awards at thel I and states 
that the Director took an "overly narrow approach" to evaluating this criterion. 
While the Petitioner submitted letters from his formerl7Ireland managers explaining how he was 
irntrumental to the company's receipt of the listedLJNalional Aw:ids, it rlmains that he is not the 
recipient of any~e awards. The Petitioner also provided a letter fro CEol I 
who notes thatl_Jireland's award submissions were "hand crafted by [the Petitioner] himself' and 
that "the endeavors behind the submissions which lead to D's successes were conceptualized, 
created, design and delivered by [th~tioner]." This letter frol)l the awarding entity was written 
years after the award was granted tol_J Ireland and it does not indicate that the awarding entity's 
intent was to recognize the Petitioner individually for his work. The Petitioner did not, for example, 
provide evidence that he received~individual recognition from Ocontemporaneous with the 
granting of the company awards toLJ Ireland. . 
The Petitioner, through counsel, also maintains that he distinguished the facts of this case from those 
in Hristov v. Roark, 09-CV 2731, 2011 WL 4711885 (E.D.N.Y, Sept. 30, 2011), which the Director 
cited in support of his finding that the Petitioner must demonstrate that he is the named award recipient 
in order to be officially credited with an award. Specifically, the Petitioner argues that here, "multiple 
sources have directly attributed Os receipt of these awards to the work of [the Petitioner]," while 
the petitioner in Hristov did not present similar evidence. The fact that the individual petitioner in 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra at 6 (stating that for this criterion, the focus should be on 
an individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes). 
4 
Hristov did not submit similar testimonial evidence from his employer or the awarding entity does not 
support a conclusion that USCIS will generally accept such evidence in lieu of evidence that satisfies 
the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Moreover, the Director properly 
determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the plain language of the regulation, and did 
not solely rely on Hristov as suggested on appeal. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 3 Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that an 
individual's membership in the association was not based on outstanding achievements in the field 
may include instances where an individual's membership was based solely on a level of education or 
years of experience in a particular field or based on the payment of a fee or subscription to an 
association's publication. 4 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his Fellow membership in thel'---------' 
which is described as "the non-profit professional body 
representing members concerned with .__ ___________________ __. 
We note that the Director determined, in part, that the Beneficiary's "certification as a fellow o~._ _ __, 
is a "certification by a professional body" rather than a "membrshij in an association." We disagree 
with this characterization and agree with the Petitioner that the qualifies as an association in the 
Petitioner's field that offers various levels membership, rather than certifications. However, for the 
reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the record does not establish that theD 
requires Fellow members to demonstrate outstanding achievements as an essential condition for 
membership, nor does it establish that applications for Fellow membership are judged by recognized 
national or international experts in the field. 
The Petitioner provided a letter frorn0 CEO I l who states that the Petitioner "met 
the requirements for classification as a Fellow." She explains that the Fellow mem1ershi~ level I lis the highest level of membership and has been awarded to fewer than 50 of the s 1500 
members. She also describes the criteria for Fellow membership as follows: 
~-~I is awarded to professionals who hold a qualification at Level 9 on the National 
Framework of Qualifications (NFQ) or higher in Leaming & Development or a related 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 Id. at 7. 
5 
discipline. This is a qualification equivalent to a Master's Degree or Post-Graduate 
Diploma. Alternatively, a I I may possess at least 10 years of professional 
experience at a senior level providing strategic contribution in a Leaming & 
Development or related discipline role. To qualify as anl I an individual must 
also demonstrate at least 10 days per year of documented continuous development for 
the most recent five years . 
.__ ____ _____.!states that "thel lmakes final decisions on membership and is made up of 
nationally and internationally recognized field experts who are directly (esp1nsible for awarding a 
I ~ Her letter was accompanied by a "Membership Criteria" chart on letterhead, which lists 
the same criteria for the Fellow membership grade that she has outlined in her statement. 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided a copy of0' s articles of 
association. This document lists the requirements for each type of membership, but the requirements 
listed for admission as a "Fellow" member are not the same as those described inl Is 
letter. Rather, the articles of association state that a person may be admitted as a fellow if that person 
"a. possesses acceptable educational qualifications at NFQ level 9 ( or equivalent) or higher in learning 
and development or in a related discipline" and "b. has made an outstanding contribution to the theory, 
practice, organization or administration of training." At the same time, the Petitioner re-submitted I Is letter and the above referenced "Membership Criteria" chart, without explaintg w~y 
those documents describe different Fellow membership requirements than those outlined in th s 
articles of association. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). As a result of this unresolved inconsistency, the submitted evidence does not clearly describe 
the Fellow membership requirements fore=] and therefore does not demonstrate that membership 
requires outstanding achievements. 
The Petitioner must also establish that prospective Fellow members' achievements are judged~ 
recognized national or international elperts r the field as a condition of membership. As noted, LJ I I states in her letter that Fellow members must meet minimum educational 
requirements, or, alternatively, meet minimum work experience requirements, with theD Council 
making "final determinations." However, there was no indication that members are required to 
demonstrate "outstanding achievements" in order to receive approval of an application for Fellow 
membership. Rather, based od l's statement, admission to this membership class appears 
to be based primarily on an individual's educational qualifications or on the number of years of 
experience they have in the employee learning and development or a related field. 5 
Thec=]s articles of association indicate that fellow members must meet minimum educational 
requirements and establish that they have made an "outstanding contribution." The term "outstanding 
contribution" is not defined in the articles of association, nor do the articles mention the role of the 
LJcouncil in evaluating applicants' achievements. By contrast, the articles of association state the 
following with respect to "Honorary Members": 
5 We note that the record does not contain information about the Petitioner's own educational background. evidence of his 
educational credentials, or a copy of his resume detailing his full employment history. 
6 
Persons may be admitted as Honorary Members or as Honorary Fellows of the Institute 
if the Council by a majority vote at a meeting if the Council certifies to the Directors 
that in the opinion of the Council they are persons of outstanding and exceptional 
distinction and are persons to whom the Institute wishes to give public recognition. 
If a regular Fellow member must also un1ergo j similar review by th0Council, it is unclear why 
such process would not be outlined in the s articles. We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion 
that there are fewer than 50 Fellow members of thec=] but this fact alone is insufficient to establish 
that his membership satisfies all elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As a result 
of the lack of clear and consistent information regarding both the requirements for Fellow membership 
and the review process, the Petitioner has not established that his Fellow membership iQsatisfies 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that their contributions have 
been widely implemented in the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner states on appeal that previously submitted evidence establishes that he "was 
instrumental in redesigning the Bachelor of Business in Retail Management at the I I Business 
School which had a significant impact on the industry as a whole, by providing the next generation of 
leadersl O O , lwith a solid foundation to advance the I I I lretail field." C: ;; 
The Petitioner rovided letters from I l former CEO ofl I Business School 
□' and the program manager for the referenced retail managemer degye at 
s letter provides background on the degree, noting that was 
commissioned b Ireland in 2007 to design the six-semester degree program, which had its first 
cohort of students graduate in 2010. The program, which accommodates 40 trainees in each cohort, 
is split 50-50 between academic coursework and work-based training withl7.Ireiand.l I 
notes that the retail management degree program is run in collaboration with[_J embedded in the 
workplace, and designed to meet the learning needs ofLJwhile upholding the quality and standards 
of a ro ram. Specifically, she notes that the program is a 
blending learning solution accredited to a,__ ___ _,(equivalent to a U.S. associates degree) which 
encompasses both classroom theory and on-the-job training. 
With ysplt to the Petitioner's role in the program,! I states that when the Petitioner 
joined Ireland in 2010, he "became the driving force behind taking the program to the next level 
in terms of its reputation and relevance" and worked to ensure "that the learning objectives were met 
in a more efficient and~ focused way." .__ _____ ,,.....describes several ways in which the 
Petitioner "added value" to the existing degree program, such as starting students with a work-based 
working module, introducing new modules in distribution and supply chain, adapting to different 
7 
learning styles, and reducing the overall length of the program.I I notes that the program 
quickly grew in popularity with up to 1000 applicants for 40 available places. 
However, the Petitioner has not established how his "value-added" changes to an existing degree 
pro~ram 
1can be considered an "original contribution" to the field. Even if the Petitioner established 
that retail management program was truly unique among Ireland'sl < < lprograms, the 
record does not establish that the Petitioner himself developed and implemented the concept or that he 
fundamentally changed its structure or content to the extent that his improvements alone could be 
considered an original contribution. Rather, the evidence indicates that at the time he joinedc=J 
Ireland, it was a three-year old program that had already been accredited by Irish educational 
authorities. 
In addition, the record does not demonstrate how the~ retail management deree program has 
influenced the Petitioner's field to a degree that rises to one of "major significance." I 
stated that "the "Earn as You learn" or D model "has been acknowledged as a model of best 
practice by a large range of stakeholders" and "is cited as a reference point by Irish Government 
agencies in relation to the national initiative as articulated in the Action Plan to Expand Apprenticeship 
and Traineeship 2016-2000." He further asserts that the program was "endorsed by a range of 
influential stakeholder groups such as employers, industry representative bodies, career guidance 
counselors and the media." However, these statements are not supported by any corroborating 
evidence from the referenced government stakeholders, media, employers, or others indicating that 
thd lretail management degree is accepted as a best practice in the retail industry or in the 
Irish higher education system, as implied byl ts statement. 
.__ ___ ___,I states "[the Petitioner's] original concept was of major significance in the field," noting 
that U.K. retail chain has since offered a similar program to its store personnel in partnership 
with the University of We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted an abstract of an 
article titled ' 
'------------------,,---,--------' ' which was published in Human Resource 
Management International Digest in 2014. The Petitioner did not provide a full copy of the 
article and there is no mention of the.__ _____ __, degree program or its influence on these other I I retailers in the submitted abstract. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and his impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Ge,d., 74! F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). While the letters 
indicate that the Petitioner contributed to th retail management degree program offered b~ I 
they are not supported by sufficient corroborating evidence to demonstrate the significance or amount 
of attention and interest the "re-designed"C=1iegree program has garnered from the greater field. 
In addition to the above-referenced article abstract, the Petitioner submitted an excerpt from a 2011 
publication titled Education Reference Guide, which features a forward from the Irish Minister for 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 
Education and Skills. It includes a full-page advertisement for the0 retail management degree at c=J. opposite an article titled 1 I which describes D Ireland's collaboration 
~c:::Jas "unique in Ireland." The article contains quotes from the Petitioner in his capacity as 
eland's career development manager, and a quote froml f, then chief executive 
, who describes the progffilll-11-s a "pioneering and exciting development." While this evidence 
may demonstrate the novelty ofl_J s retail management degree at the time, it does not establish that 
the program was the Petitioner's original concept or demonstrate that the program made a major 
impact on the retail industry or higher education in Ireland. 
Finally, we note that I O I highlighted in her letter that the Petitioner was invited to speak about 
Os retailn]managlment degree at the 2012 I I 
conference i , noting that his presentation "was very well received by more than 200 leading 
national educators, many of whom applauded his role in the continuance of the program." We 
acknowledge that the invitation was a notable recognition for c=J, retail management degree 
program, and the Petitioner's personal appearance supports statements that he spearheaded program 
when he joinedD Ireland. However, the Petitioner did not establish how his invitation to speak at 
this conference establishes the significant impact or influence of the degree program on the wider 
field, nor does it establish how the Petitioner's presentation impacted the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affa, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
9 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 12, 2024 In Re: 30232223 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by documenting his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative , by meeting at least three of 
the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if: they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athlete and instructor who states he intends to work as a Jiu Jitsu 
specialist or coach in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the six criteria he claimed to have satisfied: 
judging the work of others in bis field and display of bis work at exhibitions and showcases. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii). The Director concluded, however, that record did not support the 
Petitioner's claim that he satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director overlooked certain evidence, misapplied U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy guidance addressing extraordinary ability petitions 
involving athletic coaches, and failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence standard to the facts 
presented . Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least one additional criterion. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires documentation of an individual's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in their field of endeavor. The 
Petitioner submitted evidence of his receipt of gold, silver and bronze medals at competitions 
sponsored by the International Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) in the three years preceding the 
filing of the petition in 2021 . 
The Director, in determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
acknowledged the submitted evidence, but emphasized that "the medals awarded to the self-petitioner 
were medals given to [him] as a competitor, not as a coach." The Director therefore concluded that 
he did not establish his awards relate to his field of endeavor. 
As the Petitioner observes on appeal, USCIS policy guidance directly addresses the issue of athletes 
transitioning to coaching: 
2 
Some of the most problematic cases are those in which the beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim is based on his or her abilities as an athlete, but the 
beneficiary's intent is to come to the United States and be employed as an athletic coach 
or manager. Competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in 
general are not in the same area of expertise. However, many extraordinary athletes 
have gone on to be extraordinary coaches. 
Therefore, in general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or 
international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of 
coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the 
evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of 
expertise. 
Where the beneficiary has had an extended period of time to establish his or her 
reputation as a coach beyond the years in which he or she had sustained national or 
international acclaim as an athlete, depending on the specific facts, officers may place 
heavier, or exclusive, weight on the evidence of the beneficiary's achievements as a 
coach or a manager. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Under this policy guidance, 
evidence of acclaim as an athlete cannot suffice by itself to establish extraordinary ability as a coach, 
but USCIS officers can give proportionate weight to evidence of that acclaim when the record also 
shows that the acclaim has continued into a petitioner's coaching career. 
Therefore, the ultimate question is whether the Petitioner has shown that his coaching activity has 
been at a level consistent with sustained national or international acclaim. Because acclaim is 
considered in the context of a final merits determination, evaluation of whether the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained acclaim as a coach does not require an underlying finding that he meets the 
underlying evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) based solely on his coaching activities. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Petitioner's claim that the Director erroneously disregarded evidence 
of the awards and prizes he received as a competitive athlete in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. 1 The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he was a silver medalist at the I !Championship in 2019, a two-time 
medalist at the championship, and a bronze medalist at the _________ championship. The record contains sufficient evidence to establish that 
these awards satisfy the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
1 It appears that the Director may have made a similar error in evaluation of evidence submitted in support of the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of published material about the individual in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. relating to the person's work in the field. In a request for evidence (RFE), the 
Director emphasized that the submitted published materials "speak of the petitioner as a competitor in Jiu Jitsu and not as 
a Jiu Jitsu Coach." The Director ultimately determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion but did not state 
with specificity the reasons for reaching that conclusion. 
3 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence (including the evidence and arguments submitted on appeal) to 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Here, 
as the Petitioner is still competing as a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athlete and started coaching more recently, 
the Director should determine whether the record demonstrates an overall pattern of sustained acclaim 
and extraordinary ability in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 12, 2024 In Re: 30294309 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a partner in a capital management firm, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirement for this classification by meeting at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). They also dismissed a subsequent motion to 
reopen. The Petitioner then filed an appeal of the Director's motion decision, which we dismissed as 
moot. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss both 
motions. 
I. ANALYSIS 
A. Timeliness of Motions 
A motion to reconsider must be filed within 30 days ofthe decision that the motion seeks to reconsider, 
with an additional 3 days added when notice ofthe decision is sent by mail. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), 
103.8(b). There is no provision in the relevant statute or regulations that allows us to extend this 
period. In this case, our appeal decision was issued on July 28, 2023, and the Petitioner filed this 
motion on September 11, 2023, 45 days later. So the motion to reconsider was not filed within the 
prescribed period and will be dismissed. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
We may, in our discretion, excuse a failure to file a motion to reopen within the prescribed period 
where a petitioner can demonstrate that the delay was reasonable and beyond their control. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). Here, the Petitioner acknowledges that his motion to reopen was filed late, 
but requests that this delay be excused because he was away from his permanent mailing address 
during the response period and immediately notified his attorney upon returning and reading the appeal 
decision. In support ofthis statement, he submits airline ticket receipts, a short-term rental agreement, 
and pages from a wedding announcement website showing that he and his wife were in Hawaii for 
their wedding and honeymoon for more than two months. However, he does not explain why he did 
not take reasonable steps to ensure that he received notification ofany action taken in this matter while 
he was away for such an extended period. In addition, in the previous matter we issued a notice of 
self-representation to the Petitioner and his representative a month prior to issuing our appeal decision, 
as the Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative, was not 
properly completed. But there is no indication in United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) records that either party took any measures after receiving this notice to make certain that 
they would receive notice of any further actions. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner's delay in 
filing this motion to reopen was neither reasonable nor beyond his control. 
Despite our conclusion above, however, we will exercise our discretion to reopen our most recent 
decision. In that decision, we noted that while the Petitioner referred in his brief to a motion to reopen 
filed and dismissed subsequent to the Director's denial of his petition, he did not include a copy of the 
motion decision or any other evidence that the Director had dismissed his subsequent motion. Further, 
USCIS records showed only that the denial ofthe petition had been reopened, indicating that the matter 
remained open and the Director had not issued a decision. With his current motion, the Petitioner now 
includes a copy of the Director's motion decision, demonstrating that the appeal was timely filed in 
response to a dismissal of that motion. 1 We will therefore review the merits of the Petitioner's claims 
on appeal. 
B. Individual of Exceptional Ability 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
1 We note that when completing Form l-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, for his initial motion to reopen, the Petitioner 
filled in the business or organization box in Part 1 with the name of his employer at the time,I I 
despite not including this business name on Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker. In addition, when filing 
his appeal, the Petitioner provided the receipt number and decision date for his original petition in Part 2 of Form I-290B, 
not those of his dismissed motion to reopen which was the subject of the appeal, and did not otherwise include the motion 
information in his brief Because of these errors, on appeal we were unable to locate the receipt number or decision for 
the motion to reopen in USCIS records. 
2 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was a partner in a capital management firm, specializing in 
investments in early stage technology companies. In his initial decision, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3), pertaining to his 
participation as a judge of the work of others and his leading or critical role for organizations with a 
distinguished reputation. Since the Petitioner had not established that he met the initial evidence 
requirement as an individual of exceptional ability, the Director did not conduct a final merits 
determination of the totality of the evidence. 
In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner focused on the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). That 
evidentiary criterion requires evidence of published material about a petitioner and their work in the 
field of endeavor, published in a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserted that Venture Capital Journal (VCJ), a publication in which an 
article about him and his work appeared, qualified as either a professional or major trade publication. 
In support of this motion, the Petitioner submitted material from the libraries of Harvard University 
and the University of Chicago, a social media profile of the author of the article about him, metrics 
concerning a journal titled Venture Capital, and pages from VCJ's website. He asserted that VCJ 
qualifies as a major trade publication, applying a definition of "major trade publication" from the U.S. 
Library ofCongress. However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established that VCJ 
was a major trade publication, as the record lacked circulation and comparative data showing that it is 
a major publication in its field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterated its previous assertions concerning VCJ's qualification as a 
professional or major trade publication, stressing that leading business schools "believe it to be one of 
the leading trade publications with the private equity and venture capital industries." It also again 
refers to citation metrics regarding Venture Capital, which it misidentifies as VCJ, as well as other 
3 
evidence showing that its website receives thousands of visitors per day. The citation information 
pertains to a journal published by Routledge (which appears to be a subsidiary or division of Taylor 
& Francis), whereas VCJ's website states that it is published by PEI. As for the number of website 
visits, we agree with the Director that the record lacks comparative data to show that VCJ is widely 
read in the field such it qualifies as a major trade publication. While the evidence establishes that VCJ 
is a publication focusing on the venture capital industry, and that two respected business schools 
include it in long lists of reference material about the venture capital industry, it does not demonstrate 
that it qualifies as a professional, major trade or other major medium per this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, he has 
not established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Therefore, the motion will be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23373016 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a producer and television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner 's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director 's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently serves as a spokesperson and brand ambassador for thel I I a philanthropy based inl I Rhode Island. The record includes documentation 
to demonstrate the Petitioner's role as an advocate for the foundation's philanthropic work in Latin 
and South America and within Hispanic communities in the United States. The Petitioner intends to 
continue furthering the mission of the foundation through her work as a spokesperson and ambassador, 
as the producer and host of a children's television show, and as a producer of films and documentaries 
focused on human interest stories and humanitarian relief efforts. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by demonstrating 
the existence of published material about her work in major media and by providing evidence of her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field of expertise. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that she meets criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii), (ix), and (x). The Petitioner states that the 
Director did not provide a full analysis of the evidence submitted or consider certain evidence. As 
more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies at least three criteria, we will 
remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits 
determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or 
international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence of her work for the ___________ as a 
spokesperson, an ambassador, a television show host, and a producer. Evidence included a letter from 
the foundation's president and the former chairman and chief executive officer ofl I of 
which the foundation is a philanthropic endeavor. The foundation's president wrote that he supervises 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv). 
2 
the Petitioner and provided a detailed description of the Petitioner's roles and her impact on the 
organization: 
Since 2013,I I has represented the Foundation at various philanthropic 
events and leads our efforts to facilitate partnerships with local organizations across 
Latin America. The ltakes pride in the fact thatl I 
has traveled to underprivileged Spanish speaking communities all around the world and 
in the United States to deliver! I humanitarian and financial aid on behalf of 
I land the foundation. For example, in 2017, on behalf of I led a team to Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria to provide humanitarian 
relief efforts and also helped lead the evacuation of critically injured Puerto Ricans in 
need of medical care. In 2019, she traveled to Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, and 
Venezuela to fulfill our philanthropic efforts ... and delivered humanitarian and 
financial aid as well as toys on behalf of I and [the] 
Of the television show that the Petitioner produces and hosts, the foundation's president wrote, 
____ work on the show as the executive producer and host has been 
instrumental in the show's continued contract with major U.S. TV station, Mega TV .... 
[She] has been critical in the success of the show and it's [sic] continuous airing since 
2013 in major television channels like CNN Latino, Mira Tv, mega TV, and Latin and 
South American television station CB24. Through the show,I I creates 
content that aligns with the mission and vision and can educate, 
empower and inspire Spanish speaking children and their families. Without her leading 
and critical role in the show I I this endeavor would not be 
possible. 
The letter also includes details concerning the Petitioner's work on documentaries funded by the 
foundation through her company, I I and a letter from an executive at Mega TV 
discusses the success of the television show. A letter from a specialist for global philanthropy and 
social impact atl I provides an additional perspective on the Petitioner's involvement with the 
foundation: 
work in the children's television show and documentaries highlight and 
demonstrate awareness on many different topics to include health, nutrition, social and 
political climates in Latin America.... These documentaries demonstrate 
humanitarian, political and economic injustices of Spanish speaking countries.... I 
personally had the privilege of working with I I on I I 
where we travelled to Colombia to brin humanitarian help and awareness to the 
indigenous community that resides in . . . The television show and the 
documentaries created by .have been able to not only document the 
struggle of these Spanish speaking communities but also helped bring awareness and 
change these situations by providing humanitarian and monetary aid, toys and food for 
the less fortunate. 
3 
Although the Director found that the evidence of record shows that the foundation has a distinguished 
reputation, he determined that the president's letter "primarily contains unsupported assertions that the 
petitioner's role was critical without sufficient explanation and supporting documentation." The 
Director did not discuss the letters from the I representative or the Mega TV executive, and the 
Petitioner highlights this omission on appeal, stating that the decision refers to this documentation "as 
'letters of support' without evaluation or analyzing" the evidence. She asserts, for example, that the 
letter from the foundation describes "how the success of the foundation is attributable to the critical 
role that the petitioner performed and discusses specific projects the petitioner has worked on .... " A 
review of the record shows that the letters of endorsement do provide explanations of the Petitioner's 
critical role; these letters contain detailed and probative information2 regarding the Petitioner's role 
and were authored by individuals with direct knowledge of her work. The letters are supported by 
documentation that includes several articles and webpages, evidence of the television show's regional 
Emmy nominations and awards, as well as certificates of appreciation for the Petitioner's work from 
city and district leadership in !Florida, and I California. Upon review, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24826253 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a molecular pathologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business , or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral fellow at The University of ____________ He 
is a molecular pathologist specializing in the field of immunology. The Petitioner plans to continue 
his research at thel I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three 
criteria he claimed to have satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work and authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field of immunology.1 The record supports these determinations. The 
Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish that he met criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v). As more fully discussed below, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Because the Petitioner 
has shown that he satisfies at least three criteria, we will remand the matter to the Director to 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination to determine 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim, his 
status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To establish eligibility under the criterion, the Petitioner originally submitted, in part, documentation 
of his research and citations of that research. Included in the Director's decision was an assessment 
of the Petitioner's article citation rate of twenty-four; "he has not established that such rates of citation 
are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field to [sic] commensurate with substantial 
national or international acclaim." It appears that the Director incorrectly assessed the evidence for 
this criterion using the standards for the final merits determination. Under Kazarian, the issue of 
whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim is only 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). 
2 
assessed after it has been determined that the petitioner meets at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h). This standard should not be applied to individual criterion.2 
The Petitioner also included as documentation to support his eligibility under this criterion copies of 
papers and publications that he authored and co-authored, as well as evidence of his presentations at 
conferences and attendance at meetings with students and professionals in the field. Also included as 
evidence were letters of endorsement from scientists who know the Petitioner's work, who have 
mentored him during his academic career, and with whom he has performed extensive research. The 
Director determined that, while the Petitioner has made original contributions to the field, the evidence 
does not establish that his work has made a major impact of significance within the field. The Director 
stated that the letters of endorsement discussing the Petitioner's research lack specificity regarding 
how his achievements have affected the field or how the asserted achievements were being reproduced 
within the field. The Director further stated that the Petitioner had not established how other 
researchers emulate his techniques or have widely applied his research results, nor had the Petitioner 
shown that the presentation of his work at seminars and symposiums resulted in contributions of major 
significance to the field. The Director concluded that the evidence does not show how the Petitioner's 
work has affected the field "beyond the incremental improvements in knowledge and understanding 
expected from valid original research." 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the evidence initially submitted is sufficient to establish his 
qualifications under this criterion. He cites letters of endorsement written by former supervisors and 
colleagues who are professors and chairholders atl and at the University of I I including a winner of the Nobel Prize, and the record includes 
biographies of their roles and work as evidence of their credibility. The letters provide detailed 
descriptions of the Petitioner's research on immunotherapy using specific cells to counteract Graft­
Versus-Host Disease (GVHD) in transplants used to treat cancer and various autoimmune diseases. 
Opinions of his work in these letters include the following: 
My laboratory has been working on T cell-mediated anti-leukemia GVL immunity for 
more than 25 years. . . . _________ has significantly contributed to 
establishing the cell therapy program using ex vivo-expanded iNKT cells.... [H]e 
successfully expanded human iNKT cells from cord blood and demonstrated that cord­
derived iNKT cells are highly regulatory ... [and] enriched ... suggesting that these may 
be a unique subset of iNKT cells with immune-regulatory properties. 
Defining the main role of this ... cord-derived human iNKT cells will be fundamental 
to developing an innovative cell-therapy to improve the outcome and prevent/treat the 
GVHD in patients with ... cancer[ s] like leukemia or lymphoma. 
[H]e discovered a new way to enhance the therapeutic activity of these cells.... This 
approach has significant promise clinically. The process ... has the potential to be 
adapted to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for cell therapy for the treatment of 
GVHD. This new cell therapy could help patients as soon as within the next few 
years .... 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
He has demonstrated that ... cord iNKT cells can prevent Graft Versus Host Disease .... 
[H]is scientific work is essential to the medical research field in this country and will 
greatly improve the treatment of different hematological malignancies. 
A letter submitted on appeal from a professor at the University of I I familiar with the 
Petitioner's work writes that his research on NKT cells "defin[es] this new, functionally distinct, 
population in humans, that can be expanded in vitro." Another letter from a professor at the I I I I College of Medicine states that the Petitioner "has shown for the first time that there is a 
human equivalent of NKTl0 iNKT cells with different gene expression and superior in vitro and in 
vivo immunosuppressive function [which can] prevent GVHD .... " An additional letter submitted on 
appeal from a former mentor and supervisor at the __________ expounds on her 
previous letter of endorsement: 
His contribution to the field of cell therapy using ex vivo expanded iNKT cells is 
exceptional as we are the one of few research groups in the world who can expand 
iNKT cells in sufficient quality and quantity for the use of clinical use. Moreover, we 
are the only group who has successfully demonstrated the feasibility of ex vivo 
expansion of iNKT cells from cord blood. Because of his scientific contribution .. .I 
was able to obtain [a] prestigious government grant, [the] Individual Investigator 
A ward from [the] Cancer Prevention & Research Institute of I I - totaling 
$900,000.00 over 3 years from 2020-2023.... He has significantly contributed to the 
field of cell therapy by establishing a novel methodology to expand extremely rare T 
cell subsets, and to the field of basic science ... by further identifying a unique 
regulatory subset of iNKT cells. 
These letters of endorsement also highlight the importance of the Petitioner's New Investigator Award 
from I for 2022, his receipt of a Careers in Immunology Fellowship 2021-2022 from and 
his presentation of his peer-reviewed articles and research at several conferences-some attended by 
scientists from throughout the world. These awards and engagements are supported by the 
documentation in the record and, alongside the letters of endorsement, serve to demonstrate the 
significance of the Petitioner's specific research findings in the field of immunology. Upon review, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24514114 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hospitality entrepreneur/bar professional, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as a hospitality 
entrepreneur/bar professional. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following criteria: 
• Judge of others' work; 
• Leading or critical role; 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership in associations; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions; and 
• Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, judge of 
others' work under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). We agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets these criteria. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to the remaining 
criteria of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), membership in associations under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v), and display of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Petitioner does not dispute on appeal the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
does not meet the criterion relating to authorship of scholarly articles. Therefore, we deem this issue 
to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 
l&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding arguments not raised on appeal are abandoned). After 
reviewing the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit.1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence claiming he met the criterion based on two awards, the first being 
a first class certificate for the competition of barman which took place at the disco club.I I in 
2000, and a certificate of participation in the master class held at thel I in 
I I in 2009. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in his field of bar professional. Id. When determining 
whether the awards were for excellence in the field, relevant considerations include the criteria used 
to grant the awards; the national or international significance of the awards; and the number of 
awardees, as well as any limitations on competitors.2 We agree with the Director that the evidence 
does not sufficiently support the plain language of the criterion that the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, or that they are awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field of 
bar professional. 
For this first class certificate earned at the I I the record includes a letter froml I 
Chairman of the Committee of I I stating that the certificate was the 
highest award awarded by the International Barman Association (IBA), with an explanation of the 
IBA's reputation, the criteria for earning the certificate, and previous winners of the certificate. The 
Petitioner argues on appeal that the letter dated June 6, 2022, froml !demonstrates the 
first class certificate has national and international recognition because the letter states the competition 
had "national and international news coverage" which is included in attached newspaper articles. The 
Petitioner also argues that the letter describes the international recognition of the award by stating, the 
award "represents the range and magnitude of the global drink industry" taking into account the 
nominees' "experience and frequency in [sic] international arena.". The record includes one news 
article datedl 12000, entitled related to the 
event. The article explains that the event is the first bartenders' competition in Armenia and provides 
some event information. However, the article's publication distribution details have not been 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
provided, therefore the evidence does not demonstrate whether the news article was published to a 
national or international audience, or if it was limited to local news media. 
Also, evidence in the record contradicts some of the letter's statements. While the letter fromD 
I I indicates the certificate was awarded by the IBA, the news article indicates the competition 
was initiated by students who graduated from a bartending school.I I Also, neither the news 
article nor the certificate indicates the competition was provided by the I BA; instead, they both indicate 
the disco club I I held the competition with the top of the certificate labeled with the advertising 
brand logo and name for the disco clubl I Instead of IBA holding the competition and awarding 
the certificate, the news article and the certificate both include a limited IBA reference indicating the 
competition was held "in accordance with the rules of the International Barman Association". These 
inconsistencies do not clearly demonstrate the I BA held the competition, thereby questioning the 
national or international recognition of the award. See Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988) (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective 
evidence). 
Also, the article indicates the Petitioner was one of three persons who won the first round of the 
competition onl I 2000, being awarded a si Iver shaker. The record includes a photograph 
depicting the silver shaker with the certificate. The article was published a couple of days after the 
certificate was awarded and states the best bartender would later receive a gilded shaker at the end of 
the year. It is unclear whether the Petitioner's certificate was awarded for his excellence in the field 
since the article appears to indicate the certificate received by the Petitioner was also awarded to two 
other people, and a higher award for best bartender would be awarded at the end of that year. Such 
statements also appear to contradict the letter froml lwhich states the Petitioner earned 
the highest award. Without resolution of these inconsistencies, the record does not demonstrate the 
certificate recognizes the Petitioner's excellence in his field. See id. 
With the second claimed award, the certificate of participation in the master class held at thel I 
in 2009, the Petitioner submitted a letter dated June 6, 2022, from 
Member of the Committee of The letter states the 
Petitioner earned the highest award by ___ in 2009, and provides details about the I I I I the criteria for the award, and previous winners of the award. While 
the letter makes a statement that this is an award that received "international and national media 
coverage", no further evidence was submitted relating to the award's international and national 
recognition. While the letter mentions the media coverage of the award, the evidence is insufficient 
to demonstrate the national or international recognition of the award. 
This letter also includes inconsistencies from evidence in the record. The letter indicates the Petitioner 
received the highest award,,__ _________ however, the certificate indicates the 
Petitioner earned a certificate of participation at the master class at the competition entitled 
_____ This letter describes the award's criteria, which criteria is the same criteria, word 
for word, stated by I I for the first class certificate from 2000. The nearly identical 
language in the letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into 
question the persuasive value of the letters' content." See Hamal v. US. Dep 't ofHomeland Security, 
No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). Also.I I letter provides details for 
the competition, _______ Competition, however, the Petitioner's certificate relates to 
4 
the competition,,__ ________ The Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. See Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 
at 591-92. Therefore, the evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate the certificate of participation 
recognizes the Petitioner's excellence in his field. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet this criterion, first, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in 
his field. Second, the Petitioner must demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize 
nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to 
determine if the achievements are outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding 
determination as a condition of eligibility for prospective membership.3 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims he meets this criterion by being a guild member of the IBA. The 
Petitioner argues the TBA's bylaws demonstrate that guild membership requires outstanding 
achievement since guild membership is the highest IBA membership and is limited to one bartender 
per country. The Petitioner argues that experts in the field judge guild membership since applications 
must first be submitted to the IBA president and the guild's vice president, and the guild membership 
must then be approved by two thirds vote at a general or special membership meeting. The Petitioner 
further argues that experts in the field, the IBA president and the guild's vice president, review the 
guild membership application, and professional barmen vote to approve the guild membership. 
While the bylaws indicate a guild membership is limited in number, and requires an application and 
voting process, the bylaws do not demonstrate guild membership requires outstanding achievement or 
that the voting is judged by experts in their field. The bylaws do not indicate the IBA guild members' 
applications are selected and approved by having outstanding achievement in the field. Instead, the 
bylaws state that guild membership is "open to all independent National Bartenders Guilds whose 
members are cocktai I bartenders that meet the standards of the profession and furthermore satisfy to 
the requirements and conditions laid down in the Rules and Regulations of the I.B.A. Applications for 
Guild Membership .... " Meeting the standards of the profession and satisfying any requirements of 
the guild membership application, does not demonstrate the requirement that guild members have 
outstanding achievement. 
Also, submitting the application to a particular person, the IBA president and the guild's vice president, 
does not demonstrate they are recognized national or international experts in the barman field judging 
the Petitioner's outstanding achievements. A two third vote by members also does not demonstrate 
there is a judgement of outstanding achievements by recognized national or international experts in 
the barman field. 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 
We agree with the Director that the record does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate the 
Petitioner meets the plain language of this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; include the title, date, and author of the material 
and any necessary translation; and qualify as a professional publication, major trade publication, or 
major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Some of the articles submitted do not include the title, date, or author of the material, thereby not 
meetin the lain Ian ua e of the criterion. For instance, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled, 
dated I 2013, and another 
entitled,,__ ________________ dated 12019. Neither article 
identifies an author, therefore, such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring 
"the title, date, and author of the material". Id. The Petitioner also submitted an article from the 
magazine ________________ which does not include the title or date 
of the article, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. Id. Also, the record does not 
demonstrate the magazine publication is a professional or major trade publication or other major media 
as required by the plain language of the publication. Id. 
The Director found some published material was not related to the Petitioner and his work in the field. 
While some of the material mentions the Petitioner, the Director pointed out that the articles were 
primarily about the Petitioner's work, bartending, and not about the Petitioner. We agree with the 
Director. While articles mention the Petitioner or provide a quote from him, they are primarily about 
bartender com etitions and the bartending industry, not about the Petitioner. For instance, the article 
dated 2000, entitled! I discusses the disco club 
competition. While the article mentions in a sentence that the Petitioner was one of three 
winners of the first round of the competition, it mainly discusses the compet
1ition. Another article 
entitled,,__ _________________ dated 2019, includes quotes 
from the Petitioner, however, the article is not about the Petitioner, and instead discusses Armenia 
being a possible future host country for world bartending competitions. The articles do not include 
substantial or material discussion about the Petitioner relating to his work. 
The Petitioner also submitted material published by the IBA which relates to its meetings and updates 
within the barman industry. The Petitioner argues on appeal that this material is about the Petitioner 
and his field of barman because the material indicates the IBA meetings were held in Armenia and the 
Petitioner is the president of the Armenian Bartenders' Association. While the Petitioner is shown in 
one photograph, the material does not mention the Petitioner and mainly discusses the IBA meetings. 
Therefore, the material published by the IBA does not sufficiently demonstrate that the material is 
about the Petitioner. 
6 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that material he authored for the publication, I I as its 
chief editor, meets the criterion. However, as pointed out by the Director, the material is authored by 
the Petitioner, and is not about him. Therefore, it does not meet the plain language of the criterion 
requiring that the published material be "about the individual". Id. 
The Petitioner also submitted screen capture images from several YouTube videos. The Petitioner did 
not submit transcripts and any necessary English translations, and therefore the evidence submitted 
does not show that the videos are published material about the Petitioner relating to his work in the 
field for which he seeks classification.4 Also, he did not submit evidence such as view counts to 
establish that the YouTube channels that carried the videos qualify as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media.5 
We find that the evidence in the record does not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in the field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence indicating gratitude for his support of various associations, his 
completion of field related education programs, and his attendance at field related conferences. While 
these documents show the Petitioner participated in events and provided support related to his field, 
they do not demonstrate the Petitioner had original contributions of major significance in the 
bartending field by attending these events and providing support in his field. 
He also submitted two reference letters from vice presidents of the Armenian Bartenders' Association, 
in which the authors praise the Petitioner's personal and professional qualities, his abilities as a leader 
of the Armenian Bartenders' Association, as well as his contributions to the bartending profession and 
hospitality industry. However, the authors do not identify any original contributions, nor do they 
provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly significant 
in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contribution are of major significance 
to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value to meeting the criterion.6 On the other hand, 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
5 Id. 
6 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
7 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion.7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). The Petitioner has submitted letters from individuals close to him, praising his leadership and 
contributions to the field, but he also has not shown that these opinions represent a wider consensus, 
amounting to recognition of his original contributions across his field. 
Here, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner positively influenced and impacted the profession of 
barman within Armenia and the Armenian hospitality industry; however, the evidence does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner provided original business-related contributions of major 
significance to the field of barman. The record does not include specific methods or techniques the 
Petitioner developed to support a finding that his contributions to his field are original and of major 
significance to the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner's work was displayed, and that display occurred 
within an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature.8 We agree with the Director that the 
evidence is insufficient to show the Petitioner's work has been displayed in an artistic exhibition or 
showcase. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating he attended field-related conferences, competitions, 
and educational trainings. However, the record does not indicate the Petitioner's work product as a 
barman was displayed, or that the events he attended are artistic exhibitions or showcases. While the 
evidence indicates the Petitioner attended events relating to the profession of barman, it does not 
indicate his work as a barman was on display at these events. Also, the record does not demonstrate 
these events were artistic exhibitions or showcases. The plain language of the criterion specifically 
requires "display of the [Petitioner's] work" at "artistic exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi i). 
The record does not demonstrate the Petitioner meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
7 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
8 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix (stating that officers should determine whether the work 
that was displayed is the person's work product, the work must be the person's; and when determining whether the venue 
where the person's work is displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases, use the common dictionary definitions of 
"exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
8 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 1), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23607602 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material 
if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is a competitive athlete in karate and intends to continue his career in the 
United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied only the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). However, for the reasons 
discussed below, we do not agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for two additional criteria: published material at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). After reviewing all the 
evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria.1 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and they are 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. We disagree and 
withdraw the Director's conclusion on this criterion. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." However, a review of the record 
of proceeding reflects that although the Petitioner documented his receipt of prizes or awards, he did 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 Id. 
2 
not submit sufficient documentary evidence establishing that that they were nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Turkish Karate Federation listing 
competitions and camps attended by the Petitioner from 2012 to 2022, with the Petitioner's 
placements in each competition. The letter indicates the Petitioner placed in the following 
competitions: 
• fifth place at the Karate Championship in 2019, 
• first place in six Turkish karate cham ionshi s, 
• first place at the _____ Croatia on 2019, 
• first place at the Karate Championship in 2019, 
• second place at the Championship in I I Portugal on 
2017, _ 
• second place at Karate Championshi p in 2017, 
• first place at Croatia on 2016, 
• second place at European Championship and _________ 
Portugal on 2014, 
• first place atl lworld Karate Championships in ___ 
Spain on 2013, 
• first place at Championship in Servia on 
2013, 
• first place at ChChampionship in __ Turkey on 
I 12012, 
• second place at Championship inc==JBussia on 2012, and 
• third place atl I Greece on 2012. 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors.3 
The evidence shows that most of the Petitioner's awards were from age-limited junior competitions 
and university student competitions. Age-limited and university student awards are intended for a 
specific subset of individuals and exclude those already in the field. See Hristov v. Roark, 2011 WL 
4711885 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) (upholding AAO finding that an award which was limited to students was 
not granted for excellence in the field of endeavor); see also Strategati, LLC v Sessions, 2019 WL 
2330181 (S.D. CA 2019) (upholding finding that "Woman of the Year" award eliminated men from 
consideration and thus did not "measure the petitioner's standing or selection from the whole field."). 
The Petitioner has not shown that he faced competition throughout the field of karate in these 
competitions, which were restricted by age, student, or non-professional status. Due to these 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting relevant 
considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international 
significance in the field). 
3 
competitions excluding a majority of the field, the Petitioner has not established that these awards are 
for excellence in the field, as required by the regulation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner also submitted letters indicating he placed fifth at the I I Karate 
Championship in I 12019, and first in six Turkish karate championships. The record does not 
sufficiently demonstrate the national or international recognition for excellence in karate for the 
awards. Besides listing the placements, the record does not provide details of the awards. Without 
supporting documentary evidence to provide information regarding the actual competitions 
themselves, such as the sponsoring organizations of the events, the official entry requirements from 
the sponsoring organizations, the level of those who participated, or the degree of attention the events 
attract within the field, we cannot conclude that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in karate.4 While letters of recommendation from coaches and other athletes in 
his field indicate the Petitioner has extraordinary ability based on these placements, they do not explain 
how these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to demonstrate the level of recognition and achievement associated 
with the awards. 
With the initial evidence, the Petitioner also submitted documents relating to competItIons he 
participated in after the petition's filing date. The documents may be considered to help establish the 
Petitioner's intention to continue working in the field of karate, however, they may not be considered 
to establish awards received by the Petitioner. The Petitioner must establish eligibility for the criterion 
as of the petition's filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). 
After considering the record, the Petitioner has not met the plain language requirements of this awards' 
criterion. While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of 
these awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won, or 
that they are recognized for excellence in the field of karate, as required. The Petitioner has not 
submitted documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. Therefore, we disagree 
with and withdraw the Director's determination of the Petitioner's eligibility for this criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien ·s work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted 
sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record includes several articles reporting karate competition results that do not include the title, 
date, or author of the material, thereby not meeting the plain language of the criterion. For instance, 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
4 
the article published in TRTSPOR entitled, I I dated I 
2014; the article ublished inl I entitled, 
dated 2019; and the article published in Haberler.com entitled, ____ 
___________ dated I 2019, all do not identify an author. Therefore, 
such articles do not meet the plain language of the criterion requiring "the title, date, and author of the 
material". Id. Another article published by the Istanbul Provincial Directorate of Youth and Sports 
does not include any of the title, date, or author, therefore, also not meeting the plain language of the 
criterion. 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must establish that material was published, that it was about the 
Petitioner and his work as a karate athlete, and that the medium in which it was published is a 
professional, major trade or other major medium.5 As noted by the Director, published material "must 
primarily be about the [P]etitioner relating to his work in the field .... " See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F.Supp.2d 535 (2012) (articles about the Iranian Table Tennis Team which only briefly mentioned 
the person were not about him.); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nevada 
2008) (articles focusing on a character played by the person or the show he performed in were not 
about the person). 
Although the Petitioner submitted materials mentioning the Petitioner's name, the materials are 
primarily reporting the results of competitions and briefly mention the Petitioner being part of the male 
kata teams and his teams' lacements at competitions. 6 For instance, the Karate Federation of Turkey 
Official Journal dated 2013, and the article entitled, ___________ dated I I 2019, each briefly mention the Petitioner, 
within the context of reporting the results of the of the competitions and the Petitioner being part of 
the male kata teams. Although mentioning the Petitioner being part of a team and the team's 
competition results, the material is not about the Petitioner but is instead about the team and the 
competition results. Therefore, the articles do not meet the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of published material, including links to website 
articles and quotes from the articles. The Petitioner had an opportunity to provide evidence for this 
criterion in response to the Director's request for evidence. Where a petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the 
AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N 
Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore 
not consider this newly submitted evidence in our decision. While, the new evidence is not considered 
on appeal, we note that the links and news' quotes are not sufficient evidence of published material, 
in that the Petitioner did not submit a copy of the full publications with the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
5 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
6 The Petitioner submitted articles in a foreign language and uncertified English language translations of the articles. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) provides in pertinent part, "Any document containing foreign language submitted to 
USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and 
accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
5 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. Although the Petitioner claims 
eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.7 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience as a karate athlete, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22645775 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oceanographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement or by meeting three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a postdoctoral associate at the University ofl I She earned a Ph.D. in 
Oceanography from the University ofl in 2019, and states that she intends to continue 
pursuing research in the area of chemical oceanography in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others, and we agree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "violated 
proper adjudication procedures." After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she 
has not the initial evidentiary requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner specifically notes on appeal that the Director used the incorrect gender pronoun when 
referring to her throughout the decision, and that she misidentified her field of endeavor as 
"cardiovascular and infectious diseases" at one point in the decision. Although these errors are 
regrettable and reflect a lack of care in the drafting of the decision, upon review we conclude that they 
were not material to the Director's decision. Notably, the Director twice correctly identified the 
Petitioner's field as oceanography, and specifically considered evidence which relates to that field. 
While the Petitioner's appeal does not address any further issues with the Director's decision, we will 
briefly consider the evidence she submitted under the third evidentiary criterion she claimed. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that a petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
2 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner focused on two original contributions to the field of oceanography which she asserts 
are of major significance. The first of these is a revision she made to the I I software which 
allows for calculations of hydrogen sulfide and ammonia related parameters in freshwater and 
saltwater. This work was published in the journal Marine Chemistry in 2017, and the record shows 
that at the time of the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) it had been 
independently cited by other researchers in 15 articles. 1 She also submitted three articles published 
by other research groups which specifically note that they used her revised version of I Ito 
perform calculations in their research. Noting these citations, the Petitioner's postgraduate supervisor 
at the University of lstates in his 2020 reference letter that one group of 
researchers found her software to be "successful and accurate in its analysis." 
While this evidence shows that the Petitioner's software update has been successfully implemented 
by other researchers, it does not sufficiently show that this implementation is widespread in the field 
of oceanography or has otherwise been of major significance to the field. For example, the Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence to show that 15 independent citations to her paper describing this work 
indicates that it has remarkably impacted other oceanography researchers. Also, in discussing this 
aspect of the Petitioner's work>L..- of the University of !indicates 
that thel I software is popular and has been publicly available before the Petitioner introduced 
her revisions, and that these additions are broadly applicable and relevant to other researchers. But 
she refers to two of the three citing articles mentioned by Ito support this statement, and 
therefore does not expand upon the evidence of the significance of this original contribution. 
The second original contribution which the Petitioner focused on concerns her use of artificial 
intelligence to supplement the gathering of data on ocean acidification on the east coast of the United 
States. This work was published in Journal of Geophysical Research: Oceans in 2020, and the record 
indicates that at the time of the Petitioner's RFE response it had been independently cited in four 
articles by other researchers. Also in that RFE response, the Petitioner submitted a chart from 
Clarivate Analytics showing citation rates for scientific papers by field and year, asserting that all three 
of her papers published in 2020 were at or above the 0.1 percentile in the field of 
"Environment/Ecology." However, we first note that it is not clear when this chart was published, as 
the only date that appears is the copywrite date of 2020. As the Petitioner based her assertion on her 
citation figures from November 2021, it is not apparent that the chart accurately portrays the percentile 
ranking of citations to her papers at that time. In addition, the citation figures in this field as portrayed 
in the chart show little difference between the 0.01 percentile (21) and the 50 percentile (1), and it is 
therefore not apparent that placement in the higher percentiles is indicative of a contribution of major 
significance . 
also commented on this aspect of the Petitioner's work in his 2020 letter, noting that another 
research group used her findings to support their own conclusions. But a relatively small degree of 
implementation or impact in a field does not generally indicate that an original contribution is of major 
significance. And while I !writes that the benefits of the Petitioner's research reach beyond the 
1 We do not include the citations in five papers authored by the Petitioner or one of her co-authors. 
3 
field of oceanography to the U.S. economy, those considerations are not relevant when determining 
the significance of her scientific contributions to the field. 
Aside from these specific original contributions, the Petitioner also asserted that her body of work in 
the field of oceanography was itself of major significance. For example, in her RFE response, the 
Petitioner asserted that the growth in the total number of citations to her work was evidence of the 
significant impact of her work in the field, and compared her total number of citations to that of other 
early-career researchers. However, this criterion focuses on the significance of specific contributions 
to a field, as opposed to the final merits determination which requires evidence of recognition, acclaim 
and standing in the field. Whereas the former may be shown in part through citations relating to a 
specific contribution, the latter may be reflected in the entire body of a researcher's work, including 
their total number and rate of citation. Therefore, the evidence comparing the total citations of other 
researchers to the Petitioner's is not relevant to the analysis under this criterion. 
Another set of evidence submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion were articles which 
reported on research projects in which she was involved. These articles were published on the websites 
and social media of the organizations through which the research was conducted, such as the 
University of and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The 
Petitioner asserted that these types of articles report "only featured researches with significant 
contributions," but she did not submit evidence in support of this assertion. While the articles and 
related evidence verify the Petitioner's participation in this research, they do not aid in establishing 
that her work was of major significance to the field of oceanography. 
Finally, we note that others in addition tol !submitted reference letters in support of the petition. 
For example, Institute of Marine Science notes that her 
research group cited to the Petitioner's work on the levels of carbon dioxide in the I 
and like discussed the economic and environmental benefits of her work. And I I of the U.S. Geological Survey commented on the Petitioner's research involving a chemical 
method of determining past water temperatures from coral skeletons, concluding that these studies 
evidence "scientific rigor and global significance." But while these letters highlight the importance 
of the Petitioner's research, they do not help to establish that it has been of major significance to the 
field of oceanography. 
For all of the reasons given above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that her original 
scientific contributions are of major significance in her field, and therefore she does not meet this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
4 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 14, 2024 In Re: 30116386 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mountaineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
specify his intended employment in the United States, and therefore the Director could not determine 
whether the Petitioner had established sustained national or international acclaim in his field. The 
matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the noncitizen is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of preaITanged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). The Director determined that the Petitioner "did not clearly identify ... the 
area of expertise he is claiming." As explained below, we disagree with this detennination, and will 
remand the matter for a decision on the merits. 
When he first filed the Form I-140 petition in October 2021, the Petitioner left blank the line marked 
"Occupation." In a separate statement, the Petitioner stated his intention "to work in the 
Mountaineering activities service and industry in the United States." The Petitioner listed several 
diverse occupations related to mountaineering, such as "[o]utdoor tour operating," "[c]limbing event 
organizing," "[aa ]valanche forecasting," and "[cc ]limbing and skiing film making." The Petitioner did 
not specify which ofthese occupations he intends to pursue in the United States. 
In January 2023, the Director issued a request for evidence, stating: "It is unclear as to what the 
beneficiary intends as his occupation or area of claimed extraordinary ability." 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a second copy of the Form I-140 petition, listing his occupation 
as "Mountain Guide, climb/ski instructor." The Petitioner also submitted a letter from an employer 
that had hired the Petitioner "as a part-time seasonal Ski Instructor" in November 2022. 
The Director denied the petition in March 2023, stating: "the beneficiary has not specified one area 
of expertise. As such, an analysis of the claimed criteria [at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)] cannot be 
conducted prior to the beneficiary specifying one area of expertise to which all the claimed criteria 
should apply." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
The Rock Climbing, Mountaineering and Backcountry Skiing sports belong to 
mountaineering activities .... 
These three sp01is (cultures) are tightly fused to each other requiring common skills, 
philosophy and knowledge. 
2 
About my intentions for working as a rock climbing, mountaineering and skiing 
guide/instructor ... I have mentioned the summer and winter seasons separately ... 
leading [ the Director] to a confusion and misinterpretation about identifying the one 
area of expertise . 
. . . [M]y intention is to work in the United States as a mountain guide/instructor (that 
necessarily means for rock climbing, alpine climbing and backcountry skiing). 
We conclude that the Petitioner has adequately identified his intended area of employment. The 
Director appears to have interpreted the phrase "rock climbing, mountaineering and skiing" as 
referring to three entirely separate activities, whereas the Petitioner's evidence indicates that the 
activities are all mountain sports, inte1related to a sufficient extent that one could consistently claim 
expertise, recognition, and employment in all three. 
The next step is for the Petitioner to establish extraordinary ability as a climbing and skiing instructor. 
The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of the ten extraordinary ability criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director, in the denial notice, did not consider these claims in any detail. 
Rather, the Director stated the general conclusion that "the record does not show [the Petitioner's] 
work has [been] recognized at a level indicative of a record of sustained acclaim or that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor." The Director did not explain how they 
reached this conclusion or what evidence they considered in doing so. 
The Director's general statement of ineligibility does not explain the specific reasons for denial as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). Therefore, the Petitioner did not have an opportunity to address 
specific concerns on appeal. The Director must consider the Petitioner's specific claims and evidence 
relating to the six claimed criteria. In so doing, the Director should also take into account whether the 
evidence relates to the Petitioner's intended occupation as an instructor in mountaineering sports. If 
the Director determines that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria, then 
the Director must undertake a final merits determination as described in Kazarian. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 14, 2024 In Re: 30315588 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an executive and consultant in the finance and accounting field, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by satisfying 
at least three ofthe ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or by demonstrating her receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States has substantial prospective benefits for the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a two-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-
392 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that she currently works as a financial counselor forl Iand as a 
director of that group's Hong Kong subsidiary. She indicates she has nearly 25 years of progressive 
experience in business, with a focus on accounting, investments, mergers and acquisitions, and 
financial consulting. The Petitioner intends to work as a senior financial consultant in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement; therefore, she must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims she can satisfy four of the ten criteria, 
summarized below. 
• Participating as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv); 
• Original scholarly or business-related contributions of major significance in the field, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
• Authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); 
and, 
• High salary or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the field, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
The record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner documented her participation as an expert 
reviewer on the Senior Certified Accountant Qualification Committee for and 
provided sufficient supporting evidence to demonstrate that her responsibilities in this capacity satisfy 
the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner co­
authored scholarly articles published in professional journals in her field, thus meeting the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that she meets the remaining two 
claimed criteria. For the reasons provided below, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she satisfies the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only have 
they made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. Relevant 
evidence submitted in support of this criterion may include but is not limited to published materials 
about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the 
person's original work; and documentation that their original work was cited at a level indicative of 
major significance in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for evaluating evidence submitted in 
support of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Detailed letters from experts in the 
field explaining in detail the nature and significance of the original contribution may provide valuable 
context, particularly when the record includes other documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance of the person's contributions. See id. 
As initial evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner stated that she compiled and co-authored several 
Chinese textbooks in the accounting and finance field, including: 1 
• (2016), which she stated was 
"recommended as a textbook for adult education by National Textbook Reviewing 
Committee." 
• _______ (2012), which she claimed was "appointed as a key textbook for the 
program of'21 st Century Higher Vocational College Accounting Professional Course Reform' 
launched by the Department of Education ofl I" • I !(latest reprint in 2017), which she describes as a "bestseller" that is "suitable for 
non-accounting students in colleges and universities to learn and master the essence of 
accounting."• I I(2017), which she describes as a "recommended textbook" for 
accounting majors at Chinese universities, noting its compilation was "sponsored by the 
Ministry of Finance." 
The Petitioner stated that the listed textbooks were innovative in various ways. For example, she 
stated that _____________________ focused on accounting methods 
for new business types emerging in the changing Chinese economy. She further claimed that I I was innovative in its organization and structure because it "highlights practical 
application as its goal" which "improves the quality of personnel training and teaching level." 
1 The Petitioner included images of the textbook covers in her initial statement but did not provide certified English 
translations corroborating her authorship claims, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3)(iii). Instead, she submitted 
screenshots of listings for the books from an online Chinese bookstore and indicated the pages were "translated by 
Microsoft Edge auto-translation function." 
3 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claims and initial evidence 
but advised that the record lacked "evidence describing the impact ofthese contributions on the field." 
The Director provided a list of the types of evidence the Petitioner could provide such as letters from 
experts in her field, evidence that her contributions have provoked widespread public commentary in 
the field, or other evidence establishing that people throughout the field consider her work important. 
In a statement submitted in response to the RFE, the Petitioner emphasized that _____________ "was selected as the I Vocational Education 
National Planning Textbook," a distinction she described as "the most authoritative national award for 
textbooks." The Petitioner explained that the list of selected books was promulgated on the portal 
website of the Chinese central government in 2015, with the same notice listed on the Ministry 
of Education's official website. 
The Petitioner submitted translated excerpts of these online public notices but did not provide the 
published list of selected textbooks with an English translation. The notice from the Ministry of 
Education website indicates that 2611 textbooks from 80 publishers were selected as "the second batch 
of national planning textbooks for vocational education during the ________ The 
notice advises educational administration departments and vocational colleges to refer to the textbook 
lists "to do a good job in the selection of textbooks and ensure that high-quality textbooks enter the 
classroom." The Ministry of Education's notice states that the selected textbooks "meet professional 
standards and job requirements, pay attention to absorbing new knowledge, new technologies, new 
processes and new methods of industry development," and are authorized to download and display a 
"special logo" indicating their selection as national planning textbooks. 
The Petitioner further indicated that, in 2016 the books 
"were selected by Ministry of Finance as the ______ __,textbooks." As evidence of their 
selection, she provided screenshots ofthe book covers and what a self-prepared, uncertified translation 
of a logo that appears on the books. 
The Director determined that the evidence the Petitioner submitted at the time of filing and in response 
to the RFE was insufficient to establish that she has made original contributions of major significance 
in her field. The Director acknowledged evidence related to the selection of one or more of her 
published works as "National Planning Textbooks." However, they found that the limited information 
provided regarding the government's selection criteria did not support a determination that selected 
textbooks could be deemed contributions of major significance in a given field. The decision 
highlights the fact that over 2600 books were selected for the same list "in the second batch alone" 
and emphasizes that "no evidence has been provided showing how the petitioner's contributions differ 
from the thousands of others granted this logo, or to demonstrate the significance of being granted the 
logo." 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional explanation regarding the significance of the "National 
Planning Textbook" selection. She notes that the first batch of books selected in 2015 were "general 
higher education undergraduate textbooks, while the second batch included "vocational education 
undergraduate textbooks." The Petitioner claims that while 2611 books were selected in that second 
batch, "only 3 or 4 books were selected for each major," noting that "only materials that have a 
significant impact could be selected and they had driven important change in [the] relevant industry." 
4 
The Petitioner further explains that "textbooks are not revised very often in China" and emphasizes 
that 2012-2017 was "a key time for accounting industry reform." She maintains that she was invited 
to participate in the compilation, review, and revision of accounting teaching materials in her capacity 
as "a well-known industry expert," and added some new material to these textbooks that was based on 
her knowledge and direct experience. The Petitioner notes that these "new contents" included an 
"improved financial statements format," distinct definitions of "accounts receivable" and "accounts 
received," and guidance on "how to judge the actual operating conditions of enterprises and avoid 
risks of investors through data of mutual checks and balances." 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate she 
has made original contributions of major significance in her field. While the selection of a published 
book as a "national planning textbook" appears to be noteworthy for a books' authors, editors and 
publishers, the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that such a selection is reserved for 
textbooks that are deemed to be of major significance in a given field. As noted by the Director, the 
limited information provided regarding the selection process indicates that the books chosen are 
deemed to "meet professional standards and job requirements" and "pay attention to absorbing new 
knowledge, new technologies, new processes and new methods of industry development." The 
Petitioner's claim that "only materials that have a significant impact" and "had driven important 
change" in a given industry or field could be selected is not supported by any independent, objective 
evidence. In fact, the Petitioner indicates that her bookl II I which she claims was published in February 2016, was selected as a National Planning 
Textbook in 2015. As such, her contention that the textbook "had driven important change" or 
had a significant impact in her field at the time of its selection is not persuasive. 
Finally, while we do not doubt that the textbooks the Petitioner's co-authored and compiled were 
published at a time of significant change in the Chinese economy that naturally led to a need for 
accounting textbook revisions, the record contains insufficient evidence that these specific textbooks 
intended for vocational college students had an impact or implications of major significance in her 
field. The record before the Director contained no expert opinion testimony, recommendation letters, 
or other independent evidence addressing how the textbooks are recognized in the field as making 
original contributions of major significance, and the Petitioner did not claim that she met this criterion 
based on any other original contribution in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a recommendation letter from F-G-, chief editor of 
which is described a professional journal in the financial industry. The author, who describes her prior 
working relationship with the Petitioner, opines that she "has made important contributions to 
accounting integrity, supervision, enterprise control system and financial risk prevention, enterprise 
accounting standards and accounting reform." 
Because the Petitioner was previously put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this 
type of evidence, we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C .F.R. § 103.2(b )( 11) 
(requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 
764, 766 (BIA 1988) ( declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner 
was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial"). 
5 
For the reasons provided above, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In her initial letter in support of the petition, the Petitioner asserted "my income level is much higher 
than average in financial consulting field." She stated that she earns income from three sources that 
places her in the "top 0.1 % of the same industry." Specifically, she explained that her income is 
derived from her salary at I I from her work in financial consulting in enterprise 
mergers and acquisitions, and from payments she receives as a visiting professor and as a co-author 
of textbooks in her field. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a statement of employment and income from 
_________ indicating she has worked for that company since 2010, currently holds 
the position of general director, and earned HK$2,231, 765 "including salary, bonus, subsidy, etc." in 
2021-2022. The Petitioner also submitted bank records of certificates of deposit in support of her 
claim that she and her spouse have cash deposits valued at over $8.25 million, noting that her income 
accounts for 60 percent of the total deposits. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the initial evidence but emphasized that the certificates of 
deposit did not demonstrate the source of the Petitioner's remuneration or otherwise sufficiently 
document her past earnings. Further, the Director noted a lack of supporting evidence comparing the 
Petitioner's remuneration to her peers in her field. The Director advised that the Petitioner should 
provide tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of her past salary or remuneration, and 
comparative wage or remuneration data for her field, such as geographical and position-appropriate 
compensation surveys. 
In her response the Petitioner asserted that she receives reportable income in both Hong Kong dollars 
( which includes her salary, bonus, director's fee, and other income from Iand income 
in Chinese Yuan derived from her authorship of textbooks, serving as a visiting professor, and 
provision of financial consulting services. She submitted tax documentation for the years 2021 and 
2022 for both Hong Kong and mainland China. 
The evidence showed that the ______ Hong Kong subsidiary paid the Petitioner 
HK$1,153,515 in salary for the year ended March 31, 2023, and HK$1,137,096 for the year ended 
March 31, 2022. In both years, she earned "commission/fees" of approximately HK$200,000, a bonus 
of approximately HK$750,000, and total remuneration of HK$2.5 million. The Petitioner's Chinese 
Annual Individual Income Tax Returns for 2021 and 2022 also show I I as her 
employer and indicate that she received over CN¥390,000 as "remuneration for services" and over 
CN¥175,000 in "author's remuneration" in both years. 
The Petitioner provided the following comparative wage data: 
6 
• "Accounting and Finance Average Salaries in Hong Kong 2023" from Salary Explorer 
(salaryexplorer.com) showing an average annual salary of HK$456,000 and a high 
average salary ofHK$908,000. 
• "Financial Reporting Consultant Average Salary in China 2023" from Salary Explorer, 
showing an average salary of CN¥351,000 and a high average salary of CN¥534,000. 
• Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics for "Financial and Investment 
Analysts" from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), showing a mean annual wage of 
$108,790 and a 90th percentile wage of$169,450 for the United States. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, noting that although she 
provided her remuneration with Ithe evidence comparing her remuneration to others 
is "general information describing accounting and finance employees as an entire group without regard 
for years of experience, education or seniority within a company." The Director also emphasized that 
the Petitioner serves as a director for a company, noting that an executive level position "typically 
commands higher remuneration and involves different functions than that ofan accountant or analyst." 
The Director emphasized that "without specific documentary evidence comparing the petitioner[' s] 
remuneration to that of her peers in the same level of employment ... USCIS cannot determine that 
her remuneration is high." 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination and asserts that her position as the 
general director ofl IHong Kong subsidiary "is a professional job in financial 
consulting, not an executive position." She further contends that "[a] sub-branch director is never paid 
as an executive position," noting that her employer has "hundreds of this kind positions [sic] in China 
and more than 600 similar directors outside mainland China." The Petitioner also emphasizes that she 
provided evidence of the high income she received for her work as a financial consultant and asserts 
that she provided an appropriate comparison to salaries earned by financial consultants in mainland 
China. She explains that she earned income from consulting and lecturing during her personal time 
and therefore this income "has nothing to do with" her position atl I 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that she has 
commanded a high salary, or significantly high remuneration, for her services as a director, in relation 
to other similarly employed workers in Hong Kong. While the Petitioner objects to the Director's 
characterization of her general director position as "executive" in nature, she expressly stated that she 
is "in charge of strategic investment, acquisition, and public listing of sub-companies" for a company 
she described as "the largest modem agriculture and food industry enterprise group in China." She 
further stated that she "took responsibility" for two major internal company transactions. While she 
now downplays her level ofresponsibility and asserts that she performs in a lower-level professional 
accounting or finance role for her employer, she has not submitted, for example, a letter from the 
company clarifying the nature ofher job duties and level of seniority as a general director and financial 
counselor. 
Even if the Petitioner submitted evidence in support of her assertion that the position of "general 
director" of a company is not a managerial or executive position, the record does not contain sufficient 
objective information regarding her duties to demonstrate that average wages for "accounting and 
finance" are an appropriate basis for comparison. The wage information provided by Salary Explorer 
does not specify which occupations or industries were included in the survey results and or otherwise 
7 
provide a description of the "accounting and finance" occupation. Broad descriptions that include 
multiple occupations or multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the 
field. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claim that she commanded a high salary as a financial 
consultant, based on the income reported on her mainland China tax returns for the years 2021 and 
2022. The Petitioner reported "remuneration for services" of over CN¥390,000 for 2021 and 2022. 
She did not document the source of this income or provided evidence that she was paid specifically 
for provision of "financial consulting services." Regardless, the submitted "financial reporting 
consultant" salary data she provided for China shows an average salary of CN¥351,000 and a high 
salary of CN¥534,000. Assuming that the reported "remuneration for services" was derived from 
financial consulting work, the evidence shows that her remuneration was above average, but well 
below the high salary reported by Salary Explorer. While the Petitioner indicated that she also 
received "author's remuneration" in 2021 and 2022, she did not provide comparative salary data for 
writers or authors. 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of BLS salary data for financial and investment 
analysts; however, we evaluate persons working outside the United States based on the wage statistics 
or comparable evidence relevant to their work location, rather than by simply converting the salary to 
U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. The 
Petitioner has not claimed that she has commanded a high salary for a U.S.-based position and 
therefore the BLS data is not relevant to our evaluation of this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established she has commanded a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others based on her earnings in Hong Kong or 
mainland China. Accordingly, she has not demonstrated that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documentation showing that she meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve the final merits determination. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision 
of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter ofPrice, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
8 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, although the Petitioner has 
achieved professional success in her field, the record does not demonstrate that she has garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12965137 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an agricultural products and services company , seeks classification of the Beneficiary 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is currently employed by the Petitioner as an agricultural data scientist. She earned a 
master's degree in agricultural meteorology froml !university in 2013, and a Ph.D. degree in 
agricultural meteorology and agronomy from the same institution in 201 7. The Petitioner indicates 
that it intends to continue to employ the Beneficiary in the United States to develop crop simulation 
platforms. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met two 
of these criteria relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and her participation as a judge of the 
work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets four 
additional evidentiary criteria, has sustained national or international acclaim, and is one of the small 
percentage of those at the top of her field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree 
with the Director and find that the Beneficiary does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements of 
this classification and is not an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that material has been published, 
that the material is about the alien and his or her work in the field for which classification is sought, 
and that it was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In this 
case, the Petitioner initially submitted two articles about research on crop models in which the 
Beneficiary participated. The first article, posted on the website of1 I University, discusses the 
work of the school's researchers as part of the~----------- project, and includes a 
2 
single sentence identifying the Beneficiary and another in which she describes the applications of this 
work. However, the totality of this published material is about the research, not the Beneficiary. The 
second article, published on the website farmweeknow.com, is an edited version of the first article. It 
does not include the Beneficiary's information or quotation, and is similarly not about her. In addition, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence which demonstrates that either of these websites are one of the 
qualifying types of media under this criterion. 
In responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted chapters of a 
monograph published by the American Meteorological Society Roth chf.pters include citations to a 
paper about the ~-----~ dataset added to the I surface model, which was 
authored by the Beneficiary and published in a scientific journal in 2016. Although both chapters 
include brief descriptions and comments on the Beneficiary's work, they also discuss the work of 
hundreds of other scientists who published articles in the area of atmospheric sciences, the broad 
subject of the monograph. In addition, although she is identified as an author in each of these citations, 
following the accepted format for citations, the chapters do not provide any additional information 
about the Beneficiary, and thus cannot be said to be about her. Therefore, after review of the evidence 
submitted in support if this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes emails from scientific journals such as Agronomy, Sustainability, and Journal of 
the Meteorological Society of Japan thanking the Beneficiary for her review of manuscripts submitted 
to them for publication. We note that other emails in the record from journals which invite the 
Beneficiary to review manuscripts do not show that she actually judged the work of others. Based on 
the evidence of the peer reviews that the Beneficiary completed, however, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged that the evidence, including reference letters, citations to 
the Beneficiary's publications, and other evidence, shows the Beneficiary's contribution to the I I model and theO project, but concluded that it did not demonstrate that this 
work was original or was of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
preponderance of the evidence, including 14 reference letters from experts in the Beneficiary's field, 
shows that her contributions are both original and of major significance, as herl I 
models are in use by researchers and agricultural managers in more than 160 countries. 
3 
We first note that the evidence of the Beneficiary's publications and abstracts presented at scientific 
conferences, as well as the evidence of her contributions to weather and crop models, shows that her 
work in the field is original. We will therefore focus on whether the Petitioner has shown that these 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 
Of the reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, several were written by scientists the Beneficiary 
collaborated or otherwise worked directly with. 1 In general, such letters may provide details regarding 
her role in specific research projects, but do not demonstrate that this work was been of ma·or 
significance t ~ d beyond her group of collaborators. A letter from.__...,---,_ ______ __. 
a professor a1 ~-_ ................................... ~ocuses on the Beneficiary's work on the project durin~ 
studies there. ~-----.---...----~ states that the Beneficiary was one of the project's leadl__J 
modelers, and that th ~--~ dataset she developed, based upon a NASA framework, allowed for 
regional-scale modeling studies and "filled the gaps in historical observations." She farther writes 
that this work "enables farther studies on assessing thel lrisks at a larger spatial scale," and that 
thQ project as a whole "was featured in over 170 trade and popular press articles." 
The Beneficiary's graduate advisor atl II I also submitted a reference letter 
describing her work and its impact on the field. He goes into great detail about the Benefici~s work\ 
to develop aD_m.odeling framework, and her adaptation of the NASA framework fo 
models into herLJ modeling framework. I I also describes her work on the 
c=J..m..odel as ::i "breakthrough contribution," as it emphasized the interaction between L__J and allows th9 I model "to develop C7 feedback data more 
accurately." Finally, he notes that the Beneficiary's introduction o~ !information 
into I I improved! I simulation by 20%. 
~------~I of the National Center fo~ ,I where the Beneficiary worked 
for three summers durin9 her studies, is another of the Beneficiary's collaborators and also describes 
her development of thel_ I model, which he states "improves the~------~ 
forecasting for(gricullral areas." He also writes that thd lmodel "is the world's most widely 
used numerica prediction model and has more than 20,000 active users ... "2 
Other reference letters were written by other researchers who know of the Beneficiary's work, 
including some who have cited to it in their own published research. One of these was submitted by I lof the National Institute of Technology! lin India. He states 
that his group "referred [the Beneficiary's] assessment of a high spatial resolution! I 
dataset," and that they "leveraged" her techniques in developing a dataset for thel I 
region. He concludes that the Beneficiary's research "provides a reliable reference for international 
researchers." 
.__ ____________ ___,of I I University also states that she has cited to the 
Beneficiary's published research in her own work, noting that she did so in a review article "as an 
example of the efforts that enhanced the representation of agriculture." She also indicates that she 
1 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
2 Other evidence in the record puts the number of users at 48,000. 
4 
attended a workshop in France where the Beneficiary presented her work in the~project, which 
provides "useful datasets/tools and a solid ground for future researchers and agricultural producers." 
Another researcher who cited to the Beneficiar's work isl lof the University of I I in Canada, who notes that the L I model developed by the Beneficiary 
"takes account of varieties and field mana ement information" and was implemented into the 
and version 3.9 and provides 
"improved representation and simulation of surface conditions.".__ ___ __.also states that 
besides improving the accuracy o~ I forecasts, the model can be used to study the impact of 
.__ ______ __. od I She indicates that her team was able to add additional! I 
to the framework developed by the Beneficiary. 
These letters demonstrate that the Petitioner added valuable functionality to an existing numerical 
I I model, and provided useful tools related tol ~ for agricultural producers and 
researchers. Although other researchers have been able to build upon and apply this work in their own 
research, the record does not support the statements in these letters which proclaim her work to be a 
breakthrough or otherwise show that it has been of major significance. 
For example, althdugh mry of the letter writers agree that the addition ofi I improved 
the accuracy of th model, the complete page from the~ Users Page website3 showing the 
updates in version 3. 9 includes many updates in addition to those to which the Beneficiary contributed. 
As stated in the Director's decision, theBmodel was released several years prior to the addition 
of the Beneficiary's updates, and the Users Page indicates that many researchers have 
contributed to its improvement over those years. This is also shown by a page on the website for the 
University Corporation for Atmospheric research (UCAR) describing thd ,I which lists 
the Beneficiary' sDmodel as one of several "new parameterizations" added. While the letters show 
that her contributions to an already popula~ I model have been implemented by others, the 
evidence does not establish that the extent to which they have done so is indicative of a contribution 
of major significance. 
Turning to the Beneficiary's work on thO project, evidence in the record shows that the tools 
developed were used to support decisions on over 15.5 million acres ofl land resulted in the 
publication of 50 peer-reviewed journal articles . .__ _______ _.who served as thQproject 
manager for the six years of its existence, writes that the project "significantly improves the usability 
oft !information for agricultural production," and that the Beneficiary "made essential 
contributions to the project." However, the Beneficiary's field is.__ _____ ---.-, modeling or 
agricultural data science, and thus it is her impact upon others in that field rather than agricultural 
production that must be demonstrated. Statements from some of the other letters indicate that the 
Beneficiary's work allowed forl I modeling and resulted in conference presentations 
and journal articles, but the evidence does not indicate that it widely impacted other researchers in her 
field. 
As noted by the Director in his decision, the record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's Google 
Scholar profile showing her publications and presentations and the number of times they have been 
3 The record includes only a portion of this webpage, available at https 1 1 .__ ______________ __. 
5 
cited by other researchers. This evidence corroborates the statements from some of the letter writers 
concerning their citation of her work, but does not provide a basis for comparison to other researchers 
in her field by which the extent of the impact of the Beneficiary's work may be determined. Without 
such evidence, we do not find that the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary's work on thee=] 
project has remarkably impacted or been implemented in her field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director and do not find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of papers co-authored by the Beneficiary which were published in 
scientific journals such as Earth Interactions, Climate Risk Management, and Geophysical Research 
Letters. We agree with the Director that this evidence shows that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To show that an individual has performed in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they have 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the individual's 
performance in the role is ( or was) important in that way. 4 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that the Beneficiary's 
role as an agricultural data scientist distinguished her from other scientists it employs, and thus that it 
was a critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that this criterion and associated guidance does 
not require that the Beneficiary's role be distinguished from that of other scientists it employs in order 
to show that it is critical. While such evidence may assist in showing the importance of the role to the 
organization's activities, we agree that it is not required. 
In support of its claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted two letters from company officials 
describing the Beneficiary's work and its importance. The first, from a human resources executive, 
explains that that the Beneficiary "reports her scientific discoveries with traders in order to help drive 
market discussions and implement trade ideas," and through her modeling and analysis of agricultural 
systems provides "new opportunities to optimize! land revenue projections." The letter 
goes on to state that she is "the highest-level Data Scientist in our company," and that the real-time I I data provided by her platform is "critical for decision-making in the agribusiness 
sector." 
The second letter, submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), reiterates the 
statements from the first letter, and adds that the Beneficiary's research inl I modeling 
"has significantly advanced our ability to predict commodity trade pricing, which directly impacts 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
With Certain 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 
(Dec. 22, 2010), https:/ /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
~-___.b profitability." It goes on to state that her analysis of.__ ___________ _. is 
included in the company's weekly research reports related to global food supply and demand, and that 
"more than 100 economic analysts and commodity traders" use her analysis to make vital business 
decisions. 
Upon review, this evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary plays a critical role for 
the Petitioner or its parent company J I Although both letters indicate that she provides 
data and analysis that are important for market and trade discussions, and that commodity traders use 
her reports to make decisions, the evidence does not provide sufficient information to determine the 
Beneficiary's individual impact on the Petitioner's or its parent company's overall operations. The 
letters indicate that bot~ land the Petitioner have global operations which span the areas 
of fertilizer supply, processing and transportation of agricultural commodities, production of food 
products and the supply of raw materials and services to the biofoels industry, and the Beneficiary's 
impact in one or several of these activities on a company-wide scale has not been demonstrated. 
Further, the letters do not explain the extent to which her work product is part of a larger team effort 
with other data scientists employed by the Petitioner. As such, we conclude that the evidence does 
not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The evidence includes letters from the Petitioner as well as recent paystubs for the Beneficiary which 
verify her annual salary of $160,000. In addition, the Petitioner submitted salary data from three 
different United States government websites which included national and regional mean and high 
salaries for several occupations it claims approximate or are the same as the Beneficiary's. In his 
decision, the Director found that the data submitted did not pertain to the Beneficiary's occupation 
and did not show what top agricultural data scientists in th~ f area earned, and thus did 
not provide a proper basis of comparison to determine that her salary is high relative to others in her 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that it provided relevant data from sources identified in USCIS 
policy guidance, and that the Beneficiary's salary exceeds the 90th percentile for comparable 
occupations. 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence from the United States Department of Labor's Foreign 
Labor Certification Data Center Online Wage Library (flcdatacenter.com) for the occupation of 
"Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health" in thel I area. That data 
indicated that the "prevailing" or average wage for Level IV workers, or those who are considered 
"folly competent," was $97,739 for the period ending June 2020, and that the mean wage for the 
position corresponded to the average Level III ( for "experienced" workers) wage of $82,139 per year. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional data from the United States 
Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) for this and other positions in 
the state of New York as follows: 
7 
Occupational Title Annual Mean Wage 
Data Scientist and Mathematical Science Occupations $125,170 
Soil and Plant Scientist $80,380 
Environmental Scientists and Specialists $84,080 
Farmers, Ranchers and other Agricultural Managers $100,750 
In addition, the Petitioner also provided occupation profiles from a third website, careeronestop.org, 
which included job descriptions and national annual salary ranges for the following positions: 
• Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health 
• Soil and Plant Scientists 
• Atmospheric and Space Scientists 
• Climate Change Analysts 
• Bioinformatics Scientists 
• Statisticians 
• Farm and Ranch Managers 
We note that average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation 
with different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. Rather, the Petitioner must submit 
documentary evidence of the earnings of those in the Beneficairy's occupation performing similar 
work near the top level of the field. See Matter o_f Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide an occupation profile from the careeronestop.org website for the 
occupation of data scientists, despite providing the OES data for this occupation noted above. The 
description of this occupation 5 provided in the profile states the following: 
Develop and implement a set of techniques or analytics applications to transform raw 
data into meaningful information using data-oriented programming languages and 
visualization software. Apply data mining, data modeling, natural language processing, 
and machine learning to extract and analyze information from large structured and 
unstructured datasets. Visualize, interpret, and report data findings. May create 
dynamic data reports. 
In comparing this job description and those listed above to the description of the Beneficiary's 
agricultural data scientist position provided by the Petitioner, we conclude that this position most 
accurately matches her duties. Notably, the letter provided in response to the Director's RFE explains 
that the Beneficiary "has developed state-of-the-art I I platforms utilizing cutting-edge 
machine learning techniques" as well as data mined from several different sources. It goes on to state 
5 Found at https://www.careeroues1on ornIToo)kjt/Careers/n~cupations/occupation-
profile.aspx?persist=true&keyword=Data%20Scientists&location~....._ _________ ...., &ajax=0&onetcode= 
15205100 and accessed on February 2, 2021. 
8 
that her 'l~-----~lplatform provides real-timeOmonitoring data ... " that she then presents 
in research reports. 
Further, although the occupation profiles submitted by the Petitioner include only national salary data, 
more accurate county data is available at careeronestop.org. This information indicates that for data 
scientists in the I I area, the median wage is $118,740, the 75th percentile wage is 
$152,760, and the 90th percentile wage is $192,240. Although the Beneficiary's salary is therefore 
above average when compared to other data scientists employed in the I I area, this data 
obtained from the same source as the evidence submitted by the Petitioner indicates that her salary is 
not high relative to those similarly situated scientists. Accordingly, we conclude that the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Approval 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
9 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19083064 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has either a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award), or that he has satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an executive producer in the entertainment industry whose body of work includes 
production and director of photography credits on commercial, television and film projects. At the 
time of filing, he was scheduled to work on upcoming television projects for I and I 
The Director determined that record did not support the Petitioner's claim that he has a qualifying one­
time achievement and therefore he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
only one of those ten criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award, and, in the alternative, that he meets at least three of 
the ten criteria, discussed below. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner claims that he has 
received up to four qualifying awards, including a Grand Clio Entertainment Award, a Gold Clio 
Entertainment Award, a Gold Pencil Award from The One Show, and a Wehby Award.1 We agree 
with the Director that the evidence does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed these as "lesser national or internationally recognized awards or 
prizes" while indicating that his "Wood Pencil" award from the D&AD Awards was a qualifying one-time achievement. 
The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that the Wood Pencil award is a major, internationally recognized award 
and we will therefore not discuss it here. 
2 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, 
internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize 
as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, international recognition 
may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. The regulation is 
consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, the 
example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality 
of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While 
an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without 
meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be 
global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top awards. 
With respect to his Clio Entertainment A wards, the Petitioner provided a letter froml I I ]of the Clio Awards indicatin that he was reco nized with a 2019 Gold Clio Entertainment 
A ward in the in 2019 for his work on I I I states that the Clio 
Awards are "the premier international awards competition for the creative business." The Petitioner 
submitted a photograph of his award statue confirming his receipt of the award, as well as evidence 
that he received a Grand Clio Entertainment A ward in the same category forl I I !related to the same creative project. The Petitioner also submitted information from the 
Clio Awards website (www.clios.com), which describes it as "the esteemed international awards 
competition," and mentions the "Grand Clio," which is awarded in each category, as "the highest 
honor" bestowed. According to a submitted printout from the main Clio Awards website, fewer than 
20% of submissions within each media type survive the first two rounds of judging to be considered 
for a gold, silver, or bronze statue or a shortlist mention. The Clio Entertainment Awards are described 
as a separate awards program intended to recognize excellence "in marketing and communications 
across film, television, live entertainment and gaming," but the record does not include additional 
information regarding this separate Clio A wards program. 
also provided a photograph of his 2020 One Club Gold Pencil A ward 
category) for the project. A letter from 
the ______ of The One Club for Creativity, indicates that this project received more than 
a dozen awards across different categories at the 2020 awards, and that the Petitioner was credited on 
the work. ______ indicates that The One Club's professional awards show receives 
thousands of entries annually from advertising agencies worldwide, and that "to be selected for a 
Pencil is a great honor." A submitted screenshot from The One Club's website states that The One 
Show awards are "among the most coveted accolades in the history of the industry." 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a photograph of his 2020 Wehby Award in the I 
I !category for the I campaign. A 
letter froml lofthe International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, which established 
The Web by Awards in 1996, describes the awards as "the internet' s most respected symbol of success 
and achievement in technology and creativity," noting that "to be awarded at The Wehby Awards is 
3 
to be recognized as being at the very top of the industry." The Petitioner also provided information 
regarding the awards program from the Web by A wards website, and articles about the awards from 
Inc., The New York Times, and Los Angeles Times, which refer to the awards as "the Oscars of the 
Internet." 
While the Petitioner's Clio Entertainment Awards, One Show Awards and Wehby Award are all 
notable professional achievements, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time 
achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner did not present 
evidence, for example, establishing that winners of Clio Entertainment Awards, One Show Awards or 
Wehby Awards are widely reported by international media, recognized by the general public, or gamer 
attention comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. 
Nor is there supporting evidence showing that the recipients of these awards were announced in a 
manner consistent with a major, internationally recognized award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his receipt of the awards discussed above can qualify as a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed to meet the following criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iii), Published material in professional, major trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the perfonning arts. 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria by providing evidence that he had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . We will not disturb this 
determination and therefore, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he meets at least two additional 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets at least three of the claimed criteria. 
Specifically, the Petitioner's brief focuses on evidence of his awards, compensation, "critical acclaim" 
received by his work, and his leading and critical positions, a criterion already granted by the Director. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include but are not limited to the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
4 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has documented his receipt of a Wehby Award, Grand Clio and 
Gold Clio Entertainment A wards, and a One Show Gold Pencil award, among other awards from the 
One Show. The record also reflects that the Petitioner received a 2020 Clio Bronze Award, a 
D&AD Wood Pencil Award, and that he was credited for a project that was shortlisted for a Cannes 
Lions Titanium Award. 
We cannot determine based on the evidence submitted that all these awards qualify as nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in the Petitioner's field. However, although 
not at the level of recognition associated with a one-time achievement such as an Academy Award, 
the record reflects that the annual W ebby Awards receive a level of national recognition that extends 
to major industry publications, entertainment media, and mainstream media. After considering this 
and other submitted evidence regarding the W ebby Awards, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) based on his receipt of this award. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged the submitted 
evidence and explained his reasons for determining that none of the submitted published materials met 
all requirements set forth in the regulations. The Director observed that some of the submitted articles 
discussed projects on which the Petitioner had worked, but they were not "about" the Petitioner. We 
observe that most of these articles, some of which were published in major media, were about the _________ campaign on which the Petitioner worked, but they did not mention him 
or his role in the project. The Director also acknowledged that, while a few of the submitted articles 
were about the Petitioner and relating to his work, the supporting evidence, which included 
information from SimilarWeb, did not establish that the websites that published the articles were 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. We observe that one of the submitted 
articles about the Petitioner did not identify the title, date and author of the material and it is unclear 
where it was published. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally states that "the media" has recognized his work, but he neither 
claims nor explains how the previously submitted evidence satisfied the published materials criterion, 
nor does he include any direct reference to this criterion in his appellate brief Further, the Petitioner 
does not point to a specific error on the part of the Director or otherwise address the Director's reasons 
for determining that he did not satisfy the requirements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, 
we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has challenged the Director's determination with respect to this 
criterion on appeal. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F(2) appendix, http://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
5 
*l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court determined the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he 
failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish 
that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 3 
The Petitioner provided the following evidence in support of this criterion: (1) a November 2020 letter 
from a producer for I detailing his expected compensation for 2021; (2) a 2019 corporate tax 
return for I which is co-owned by the Petitioner; and (3) wage data for Producers 
or Producers and Directors from various online sources, including the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Glassdoor, and Salary.com. 
The letter froml !outlined the Petitioner's television project slate for 2020-2021 and identified 
four projects under "active negotiation," ranging from $15,000 in expected compensation for a broadcast 
commercial to $600,000 in expected compensation for a I series. However, the record did 
included minimal evidence of the Petitioner's compensation based on previous work. The regulation, by 
requiring evidence that the Petitioner "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration" cannot be satisfied with evidence of expected future earnings. The submitted 2019 federal 
tax return for indicates that this entity paid the Petitioner $40,000 in salary and 
shows that he earned ordinary business income of $697 as a 50 percent owner of the company. While the 
company reported gross earnings of over $613,000, this figure does not represent the Petitioner's salary 
or total remuneration. The supporting wage data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and other sources 
did not establish that the Petitioner's documented 2019 earnings of $40,697 were high in comparison with 
others in his field. 
In a request for evidence, the Director observed that the record lacked supporting financial documentation 
to establish the Petitioner's past earnings (such as payroll records or income tax forms) during any given 
period of time and provided the Petitioner an opportunity to supplement the record. 
In res onse, the Petitioner stated that he "earned a salary of$300,000" for his work on a 12-part miniseries 
for and reiterated that he would be earning $600,000 ($75,000 per episode) for an upcoming 
series titled! I He emphasized that the highest salary reported for a producer, 
according to the submitted wage data sources referenced above, is approximately $183,000. 
However, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not adequately document his 
previous earnings as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner's response to the Director's 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical 
and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
6 
request for for evidence included a bid package and cost summary submitted to 
a production company co-owned by him. The bid total amounted to $236,450.50 and therefore 
does not support the Petitioner's claim that he personally earned a salary of $300,000 for this project. 
Further, the bid total includes many costs and expenses beyond the Petitioner's expected individual 
earnings for the project. His actual remuneration from this project, assuming the bid was accepted, and 
the project was completed by I cannot be determined based on the documentation provided. 
The Petitioner also submitted cost summary documents submitted to (in 
connection with its I !campaign) and to (in 
connection with the _______________ campaign for end-client While 
these documents pre-date the filing of the petition, they do not provide information regarding the 
Petitioner's actual salary earnings or other total remuneration. The Petitioner did not submit any past 
earnings statements, IRS Forms 1099 or W-2, his own individual tax returns, any additional tax returns 
for his co-owned production companies, or other documentation that would allow us to determine his 
compensation based on past work. 
On appeal, although the Petitioner claims the Director erred in concluding that he does not meet this 
criterion, he does not address the Director's determination that the record lacks evidence of his actual past 
earnings. We agree with the Director that the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that the 
Petitioner has commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration compared to other executive 
producers in his industry. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or television 
productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that 
the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others 
involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 4 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to a request for evidence, 
the Petitioner asserted that he satisfies this criterion because he "directly impacted the success" of the 
____________ as its executive producer. The record establishes that the Petitioner 
served as executive producer for 30 episodes of this series; however, as noted above fulfilling this criterion 
is not simply a matter of credited involvement in a film or television series. 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence of the commercial success of the series as s ecified 
in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The Petitioner submitted an article titled 
published by The Wrap in _ 
2015. The article mentions that __ was set to start production on its third season and would 
premiere in the fourth quarter of 2015, but it does not provide evidence of the show's "commercial 
success." The Petitioner highlighted a portion of the article in which the author mentioned that the I I hncreased its audience by 31 percent in the advertise-sought 18-49 demographic and 21 percent 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
in total viewers" between "Q2 2014 and Q2 2013" but did not establish that this overall ratings 
improvement for the network was attributed to the commercial success of I Another article, 
from I states that "the series is popular with the viewers and currently has an 8/10 rating on 
IMDb." However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that would allow a comparison of the 
commercial success of relative to that of other similar programming in the television industry. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged his claims 
regarding the commercial success ofl I But the Director emphasized that the regulatory criterion 
calls for evidence of commercial success in the form of "sales" or "receipts," evidence which the 
Petitioner had not provided. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) or the 
Director's reasons for concluding that he did not establish that he meets this criterion. He generally 
references his work on "highly rated" projects without explaining how the previously submitted 
evidence demonstrates how his work has received high sales, receipts, or comparable evidence of 
commercial success relative to others in the industry. Accordingly, we affirm the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his commercial successes in the performing arts. 
C. Prior approval of 0-1 nonimmigrant petition 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. 
In addition, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate 
record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information 
contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required 
to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of 
prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 
593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 
1987). Furthermore, we are not bound to follow a contradictory decision of a service center. La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), affd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
8 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner has been engaged in steady work as a producer and director of commercial 
and television projects, co-owns and leads a successful production company, and had recently 
participated in a I campaign for the I I that garnered 
media attention for the network and series and industry awards for the Petitioner and other creative 
professionals involved in the campaign. However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work to date is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19518886 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a anatomist and professor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, he concluded that the record did not establish that the 
Petitioner's entry would provide a substantial prospective benefit to the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an associate professor in the department of anatomy at the I I University of I I and at the time of filing was a visiting professor at the University I I He received a 
Doctor of Philosophy degree in medical science in 2011, and indicates that he intends to continue his 
work in the application of cross reality and other technologies to the field of human anatomy. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and his participation as 
a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work, and original 
contributions of major significance to his field.1 
Prior to issuing his decision, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) which notified the 
Petitioner that he met the two criteria mentioned above, but did not meet four other criteria which he 
had initially claimed. However, the Director's RFE did not go into sufficient detail regarding the 
deficiencies in the evidence submitted, using less than five words to describe the multiple documents 
and types of evidence for all but one of the criteria. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(8)(iv) 
requires that an RFE or notice of intent to deny provide "adequate notice and sufficient information to 
1 The Petitioner did not respond to the Director's RFE with additional evidence or arguments regarding his claim to the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), nor does he do so on appeal. His claim to qualify under that evidentiary criterion is 
therefore abandoned. 
2 
respond," but here the lack of information in the Director's RFE did not give the Petitioner adequate 
notice of the deficiencies in the evidence or a reasonable opportunity to respond. 
Similarly, in his decision to deny the petition, the Director did not directly address the reasons for his 
conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet the three additional criteria he claimed at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (v). We note that the section of the decision under the heading 
"Analysis of Criteria" simply lists the criteria met and not met by the Petitioner, and does not provide 
any analysis of the evidence submitted under each of those criteria. Further in the decision, the section 
titled "Conclusion" makes reference to several types of evidence, including reference letters and 
citation records, and makes conclusions about whether this evidence generally shows that an original 
contribution is of major significance to field. Although this appears to be the missing analysis of the 
evidence submitted in support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the decision does not 
specifically address a single piece of that evidence, nor does it evaluate the response to the RFE or the 
additional evidence submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
of the three criteria claimed by the Petitioner in addition to the two criteria that the Director has 
determined were met. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As discussed above, the Director provided no analysis of the evidence submitted under this criterion 
in his decision. In responding to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence relating to two 
of the four awards he initially claimed: the "Best Presentation Award" from the I Association 
of Anatomists, and the Award for Basic Medicine from the Medical Association. On remand, 
the Director should focus his analysis on the evidence of these two awards and their recognition in the 
field of endeavor. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Similar to the above criterion, the Director's decision includes no analysis of the evidence submitted 
under this criterion, or discussion of the Petitioner's initial claims or those made in his RFE response. 
On remand, the Director should consider the Petitioner's evidence and claims made at each step of the 
adjudication of this petition and address their sufficiency in meeting each of the elements of this 
criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As we noted above, the Director's discussion in the "Conclusion" section of his decision appears to 
mainly relate to evidence submitted under this criterion. However, this discussion does not mention 
specific evidence, referring instead to "testimonial letters" and "various materials." On remand, the 
Director should provide an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of this criterion as 
well as the claims made by the Petitioner in his initial filing, RFE response and appeal brief. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he was 
not required to conduct a final merits determination of whether the Petitioner has established that he 
possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three 
criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
C. Substantial Prospective Benefit 
In his decision, the Director summarized the Petitioner's written statement, which included a detailed 
description of his past research projects and how he intends to continue to pursue them in the United 
States. This summary acknowledges the Petitioner's statements regarding the benefits his research 
would bring to the United States, but concludes that the record does not include evidence of "how the 
Petitioner's work will be advantageous and of use to the interests of the United States on a national 
level." We note that the Director's RFE requested the same type of evidence that had already been 
provided by the Petitioner, a statement detailing his plans. 
In addition, the Director did not consider the reference letter from ______ of __ 
College, who writes that the United States would "benefit from [the Petitioner's] experience and 
expertise in the application of 3D modeling in forensic anthropology, human osteology, human 
anatomy ... " since American labs are not as experienced in the use of this technology. We further note 
that because neither the regulations nor statute specifically define the term "substantially benefit," it 
has been interpreted broadly. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(3), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. As the Petitioner has submitted a detailed plan of his intended 
work in his field in the United States as well as evidence of its substantial prospective benefit, we 
withdraw the Director's decision and find that he meets this statutory requirement. 
ORDER: The Decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20634358 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and artistic display). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, relating to awards for excellence, 
published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, original contributions of 
major significance, and artistic display of his work. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to published material and judging, 
but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, original contributions, and artistic display criteria. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the awards and artistic display criteria, and that he 
has satisfied the standard of proof in this matter. Except where a different standard is specified by 
law, a petitioner must prove eligibility for the requested immigration benefit by a preponderance of 
the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Under the preponderance 
of the evidence standard, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner's claim is "probably true." 
Id. at 376. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he has also satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating to artistic display of his work.4 The Petitioner has, therefore, 
overcome the basis for denial of the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Director's first-step analysis of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) included some problematic 
statements. For example, the Director stated: "[T]he mere fact that an artist has exhibited his work does not necessarily 
establish extraordinary ability. The artist must also demonstrate that the exhibition or showcase was at a venue of sufficient 
level to evidence acclaim .... " The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), however, does not require 
that a petitioner's evidence show "extraordinary ability" or "acclaim" as indicated in the Director's decision. Such an 
analysis of the evidence is relevant to the final merits determination and not the first-step evaluation of the display criterion. 
4 For instance, the record includes documentation indicating that his designs have been displayed at artistic exhibitions in 
China. 
2 
the record does not support approval of the petition. Granting the third initial criterion does not suffice 
to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director must 
undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19843251 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sound design and editing 
field. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(1XA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been employed within the sound design and editing field by ___ I I since 2009. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that 
he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains eligibility for seven criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does 
not establish that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his receipt of al I Award 
and a I Award. In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that he 
received prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 1 
Regarding thel I Award, the Petitioner references evidence fro showing that he 
received a I in the for at the second 
annual ceremony in 2010. In addition, the screenshots reflect that the Awards is produced 
by I and land honors the best in online video and the creators 
behind it." Further, the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that some media coverage, such 
as usatoday.com, hollywoodreporter.com, and ew.com, reported on the background. nominees, and 
winners from the past ten years. Although he demonstrated his receipt of al I Award, the 
Petitioner did not establish the award's national or international recognition for excellence in his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner did not show that his sound design and editing field recognizes his I I Award as a national or international award for excellence. The presented evidence, for 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html. 
2 
instance, does not discuss or acknowledge his field's view ofreceiving a Award to reflect its 
national or international recognition for excellence. 
As it relates to the I IA ward, the Petitioner references a screenshot from I I 
showingthatthe film] I received an award atthe fifth annuall I Awards in 2017. 2 
The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or 
prizes. 3 Here, the record reflects that the film rather than the Petitioner received the award. Although the 
Petitioner submitted additional screenshots from imdb .com that lists the Petitioner as a winner at the 2017 I !Awards, theevidencefroml ldoesnotcorroboratethisclaim. Moreover,asthere 
are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site, we will 
not assign weight to infonnation fromimdb.com. Cf. LaamilemBadasa v. MichaelMukasey, 540F.3d 
909 (8th Cir. 2008) (finding that another open, user-edited internet site Wiki edia, lacks reliability of 
the content). 4 Without evidence from the awarding entity, such as or other credible, 
independent sources, the Petitioner did not establish that he received a 2017 Award. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that thel I Award is nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of endeavor. Although he provided 
information aboutl I and festivals, the Petitioner did not show how the evidence establishes 
the national or international recognition ofl _ awards for excellence in his field of sound 
design and editing. Further, according to the screenshots from I I submitted by the 
Petitioner, "[w ]inners will receive ourl I Trophy ... making what we are sure will 
soon become one of the most coveted awards on the festival circuit, and this is just the beginning," 
opining on its anticipated or projected recognition in the overall festival industry rather than 
demonstrating its national or international recognition for excellence in his field of sound design and 
editing. Moreover, according to the screenshots, "[c]ategories were expanded this year to include 
more awards, many of which will now be awarded a high quality, brushed silver plaque while the 
major categories will be awarded thel I Trophy" and "* indicates awards is a plaque'd award." 
The IA ward claimed by the Petitioner has an asterisk next to its award indication, showing 
that the film did not receive an award in a major category. Even if he established that al I 
Trophy represents a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence, which he did not, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a lesser "plaque'd award" also constitutes an award "for 
excellence." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
2 The record also contains a document listing all of the nominees under ea ch category. The film, is listed 
with six other films. In fact, there is no category listing sound designers or editors. 
3 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
4 See also imdb.com: 
Disclaimer of Warranties andLimitationofLiability: The IMDB Services and all information, content, 
materials, products (including software) and other services included on or othe1wise made available to 
you through the IMDB services are provided by IMDB on an "as is" and "as available" basis. IMDB 
makes no representations or warranties ofa ny kind, express or imp lied, as to the operation of the TMDB 
services or the information, content, materials, products (including software) or other services included 
on or othe1wise available to you through the IMDB services. Use of the IMDB services is at your sole 
risk, IMDB reserves the right to withdraw any IMDB services or delete any infmmation from the IMDB 
services at any time in its discretion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on his membership with the Motion Picture 
Sound Editors (MPSE). In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in 
the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner references screenshots from mpse.org; a letter froml l l ___ 
__ for MPSE; and recommendation letters. 6 I confirmed the Petitioner's active 
membership status and stated: 
To gain active membership status in MPSE, an applicant must complete and submit an 
application to the Board of Directors. The Board of Director's discusses the applicant's 
qualifications, and acceptance of the applicant requires a majority vote of the Board of 
Directors. The minimum requirement for Active Membership is proof of three (3) 
consecutive years' experience as a sound editor or sound designer or music editor 
cutting Dialogue, ADR, Sound Effects, Foley, or Music or as a Foley Artist. 
Additionally, an applicant must have made, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, 
an outstanding contribution to his or her field of endeavor. The application must be 
completed in full, along with any supporting materials, and must be supported by two 
(2) active members. The Board of Directors detennines any additional requirements. 
In addition, the submitted excerpts of MPSE's '"Constitution and By-Laws" posted on its website 
repeat !statement above. Further, a letter froml I of MPSE, 
indicated that "our final focus has always been on whether the applicant has made an 'outstanding 
contribution' to the field of sound." Although they discuss an "outstanding contribution," the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) requires "outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, a "contribution" is not synonymous with an "achievement." Contribution is defined as: 1) 
the act of contributing, such as a) the giving or supplying of something as a part or share, orb) the 
giving or supplying of something that plays a significant part in making something happen; 2) 
something that is contributed, such as a) something that is given or supplied as a part or share, b) 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 The Petitioner provided additional evidence onappealrela ting to his membership status. However, we will not consider 
this evidence for the first time onappealas itwasnot presented before the Director. SccMattcrofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 
764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if"the petitionerwas put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any 
purpose"and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&NDec. 533 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner had the opp01iunity to submit the evidence at the time 
he filed his petition and in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this evidence for the first 
time on appeal. 
4 
something that plays a significant part in making something happen, or c) something that is supplied 
for a publication; or 3) a payment imposed by military, civil, or ecclesiastical authorities usually for a 
special or extraordinary purpose. See www.merriam-webster.com. An achievement, on the other 
hand, is defined as: 1) the act of achieving something; 2) a) a result gained by effort orb) a great or 
heroic deed; or 3) the quality and quantity of a student's work. Id. Here, the Petitioner did show that 
membership with MPSE requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish that the outstanding contributions are 
judged by recognized national or international experts. Although! land MPSE's constitution 
and bylaws indicated that MPSE's Board of Director's determine whether an applicant has made 
outstanding contributions, they do not discuss the composition of the Board of Directors. The 
Petitioner did not show thatthe Board of Directors is comprised of recognized national or international 
expe1is in their disciplines or fields who judge the outstanding achievements for membership, as 
required under this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 7 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 8 
The record reflects that he submitted one article from indianexpress.com, one article from 
newindianexpress.com, one article from firstpost.com, one article from rediff.com, and one article 
from thehindu.com constituting published material about the Petitioner relating to his sound design 
and editing field. In addition, all of these articles contained the necessary titles, dates, and authors. 9 
Initially, the Petitioner provided readership and circulation data related to the printed publications of 
The Indian Express, The New Indian Express, and The Hindu rather than for the websites that posted 
7 Sec 6 USCJS PolicyManual,supra, atF.2(B)(2). 
8 Although the Petitioner submitted additional evidence on appeal relating to a readership survey and newspaper and 
magazine figures, we will not consider this evidence for the first time on appeal as it was not presented before the Director. 
See Soriano, 19 I&NDec. at766; seealsoObaigbena, 19 I&NDec. at 533. 
9 At initial filing, the Petitioner provided additional articles from indianexpress.com (1 ), firstpost.com (2), and 
soundandpicture.com (1) and a book. However, these materials did not reflect published material a bout him relating to his 
work and/or did not contain the required title, date, and author. Further, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner 
did not continue to c !aim eligibility for th is criterion based on these materials. The Petitioner did maintain eligibility based 
on an a1iicle posted on soundandpicture.com and an a1iicle posted on behindwoods.com. However, the 
soundandpicture.com article did not include the author and did not represent published material about him, and the 
behind woods.com article did not contain the date. Thus, none of these materials mentioned here qualify for this criterion. 
5 
the articles. See, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). In addition, the Petitioner submitted background and contact information 
from firstpost.com. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007), aff'd 2009 
WL 6048 8 8 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to 
the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Finally, the record did not reflect 
that the Petitioner offered evidence relating to the status of rediff.com. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted information from The Indian Express 
claiming that its website has "over 120 million page views a month" and from the The New Indian 
Express asserting that its "readers of the newspaper spread all across the world with a very high NRI 
traffic to the website." See Braga, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ajf'd 2009 at WL 604888. In addition, he 
offered readership statistics for The Indian Express and The New Indian Express from 
bestmediainfo.com. Again, the record does not show that the articles were printed in the respective 
publications but posted on their websites. See, e.g., Victorov, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020WL 
3213788, at *8. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots from themediaant.com highlighting that firstpost.com 
receives 50 million impressions per month and thehindu.com receives 22 million monthly active users 
and from mobilemerchants.com that rediff.com receives 17 million monthly unique visitors. The 
Petitioner, however, did not establish the significance of these statistics, showing that the websites 
represent professional or major trade publication or other major media.10 For example, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate or explain the meaning of such figures, to reflect major status in India or 
internationally. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that not only has an individual been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the individual actually participated in the judging of the work 
of others in the same of allied field of specialization.11 The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility 
for this criterion. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner indicated that he met this criterion 
based on serving on a panel for MPSE' s IA wards and referenced a recommendation letter 
froml I who stated that he "was actually the person who invited [the Petitioner] to se1ve 
on the Awards' panel of judges" and "[the Petitioner's] evaluation of peers' work is of considerable 
value to the board." Although the Petitioner also pointed to the previously discussed letter fromD I I the letter makes no mention of the Petitioner serving on a judging panel but indicated that 
MPSE holds the annual I I Awards. In addition, the Petitioner cited tol ts letter 
who stated that "[a]s an active MPSE member, [the Petitioner] is part of the distinguished body of 
10 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2(B)(2) (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professionalormajor 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
com pared to other circulation statistics). 
11 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
6 
voters responsible for selecting the annual slate of nominees and winners for the highly coveted I I Awards." 
The Petitioner's evidence, however, makes broad claims without providing specific, detailed 
information demonstrating that he actually participated as a judge of the work of others. The evidence, 
for instance, does not contain probative information elaborating on whom, what, and when he judged. 
Instead, the letters generally asse1i that the Petitioner was invited to serve and was part of a panel 
without sufficiently describing his judging work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he submitted an additional letter from lbut makes 
no argument explaining how the letter demonstrates his eligibility for this criterion. In fact, I 
does not discuss the Petitioner serving as a judge for MPSE's I Awards, let alone any 
mention of MPSE or the I Awards. In addition, the Petitioner references evidence relating 
to MPSE and the [Awards. However, none of the documents show the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge. Without further information or supporting evidence, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he participated as a judge for MPSE'sl I Awards. 
The Petitioner also asse1is eligibility for the firsttime on appeal based on his active membership status 
with MPSE and references MPSE's "Constitution and By-Laws," indicating that "[a]ctive members 
in good standing shall have the right to vote at membership meetings." The Petitioner did not make 
this claim before the Director. See Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 7 66; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 
533. Notwithstanding, the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that he actually voted in his 
capacity as an active member, nor did any of his evidence discussed above make such a claim. Similar 
to his claims regarding the I I Awards, the record does not contain detailed, probative 
information reflecting on whom, what, and when he voted. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that voting at MPSE membership meetings involves participating as a judge of the work 
of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.12 Initially, the Petitioner provided 
copies of his paystubs and his 2018 IRS Fonn W-2, Wage and Tax Statement from In addition, 
he submitted screenshots from bis.gov reflecting median pay figures for broadcast and sound 
engineering technicians and screenshots from Simply Hired relating to sound engineer salaries. In 
response to the Director's RFE, he offered his 2019 Form W-2, annual salary information for sound 
designers from careersinfilm.com, average sound designer salary data from payscale.com, and average 
annual salary figures for sound mixers from finance.yahoo.com. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner compared his salary to that of the average or median salaries of 
broadcast and sound engineering technicians, sound engineers, sound designers, and sound mixers. 
12 See6 USCISPolicyManual,supra,atF.2(B)(2). 
7 
However, the record does not reflect that employs him in this capacity. Rather, the record shows 
that he is at a supervisory position. Although the record does not include a current job letter specifying 
his position, the records contains documentation referring to the Petitioner as a supervising sound 
designer and editor. For instance, I stated that"[ a ]s a sound designer and supervisor, he is 
tasked with managing editors on his team to complete the project per the client's expectations and 
needs." Further, an article from soundpicture.com I 
___________ referenced the Petitioner as the "supervising sound editor." The 
Petitioner did not compare his salary to other supervising sound designers and editors. Both precedent 
and case law support this applicationof8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the 
field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers);Muniv. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440,444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995)(comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen ). Here, the Petitioner did not show 
that the comparison of average and median salaries oflower level positions reflects his commandment 
of a high salary in relation to other supervisory sound designers and editors. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard- statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, judging, and high salary. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these 
additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
8 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues.13 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (statingthat"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Therecorddoesnotcontain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 SeeINSv. Bagamasbad,429U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter o/L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17561866 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a multimedia designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting three of the criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . In our decision dated May 29, 2020, we agreed with the Director and 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. He subsequently filed a motion to reconsider, which was received 
on August 26, 2020, 89 days after our appeal decision was issued. We dismissed the motion as 
untimely. The Petitioner now submits combined motions to reopen and reconsider, challenging our 
previous decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision , and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reconsider must be filed within 33 of the 
date of the unfavorable decision. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, in our most recent decision in this matter, we dismissed the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider because it was not timely filed. While we acknowledged that USCIS issued guidance that 
allows for acceptance of Form I-290B within 60 calendar days of the unfavorable decision, due to 
processing and mailing delays resulting from the COVI-19 pandemic, the Petitioner's previous motion 
was not received until 89 days after our appeal decision was issued. 
On motion, the Petitioner makes three arguments that the previous motion should not have been 
rejected as untimely. First, he refers to an email dated July 1, 2020 from USCIS which announced an 
extension of filing flexibilities initially instated on March 30, 2020. He highlights the language from 
that email which lists "filing date requirements for Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion" as one 
of several listed documents to which the flexibility applies. However, that email clearly states that a 
Form I-290B will be considered if "received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision 
before we take any action." Therefore, because the Petitioner's Form I-290B for his first motion was 
received 89 days after the date of our appeal decision, it cannot be considered to have been filed within 
the extended period allowed by the COVID-19 filing flexibilities policy. 
Second, the Petitioner notes that an initial Form I-290B was received on July 2, 2020, 34 days after 
our unfavorable decision, but was rejected because it was filed on an outdated form, which he attributes 
to "a minor clerical error." In addition, he refers to submitted media articles regarding delays and 
other issues at the U.S. Postal Service during the COVID-19 pandemic, asserting that these led to a 
delay in his ability to refile the rejected Form I-290B. The Petitioner supports this argument by 
referring to 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i), which allows USCIS to excuse an untimely filed motion to 
reopen in our discretion if the delay was reasonable and beyond the control of the petitioner. However, 
the regulation does not provide for discretion with regard to untimely filed motions to reconsider, 
which is the type of motion filed by the Petitioner after our dismissal of his appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of 
record or that that we misapplied relevant policy or law. In addition, after review of the new facts 
submitted in support of his motion to reopen, we conclude that he has not overcome the grounds for 
our dismissal of his previous motion. Accordingly, we will dismiss both motions. 
2 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7882011 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 17, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a 3D artist and animator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence of his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, 
evidence that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all ten initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise 
qualified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien bas extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received his bachelor of arts in animation fro ml L College of I.__ ___ ___. 
in the Philippines in 2014. The record reflects that, since graduating, he has worked in the Philippines 
as a 3D animator forl !Corporation (2015), as a 3D artist foJ I Studio 
(2016-17), and as a freelance 3D animator for I 1(2017). 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. 2 The Petitioner does not contest this determination on appeal and 
therefore we deem this issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). Accordingly, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the 
work of others and commanding a high salary or other remuneration at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(jx) The Pef tioner provided evidence demonstrating that he was asked to participate as a judge in the I College I ts thesis evaluation for the animation department's graduating 
class of 2015. In addition, he provided probative evidence of his 2015 year-end earnings along with 
evidence from two reliable sources demonstrating that he commanded a high salary relative to others 
working in the same occupation in his geographic region. Accordingly, we agree that the Petitioner 
satisfied these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets all eight of the remaining ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner 
did not establish that he meets at least three criteria. 
1 The record demonstrates thatj subsequent to the filing of the petition, the Petitioner accepted an employment offer in the 
United States as a 3D artist for I 
2 In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed that his Certificate of Recognition from I I 
Corporation was a qualifying one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) but he has not pursued this claim. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner initially submitted the following evidence: 
• Certificate of Recognition from'----------~ Studio for achievements in his 
position as a 3D artist 
• Certificate of Recognition -Division-level Award, as a member of Motion Capture & 3D Scan 
Operations, a nominee for the 20151 I Awards Team Category, presented by I I 
Corporation as part of"~ ____ _," the I I Special Recognition Program. 
The Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence to establish that his certificate from I 0 
I I Studio is a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize. The record does 
not establish that the award is open to anyone other than employees of the company, or that it is 
recognized outside of the company that granted it. 
With respect to his "Division-level Award" from I ICorporation, the Petitioner emphasized 
that I I Corporation, where he worked at the time he received the award, is the largest media 
and entertainment company in the Philippines. He explained that thel I awards are publicly 
announced at an "awards night being held annually at the end of every month." The Petitioner 
explained that the award "is not limited to the employees of the award giving body"; however, he 
appeared to contradict that statement by also noting that the award is intended to "recognize exemplary 
performance by individuals identified by their supervisors and peers as having consistently excelled 
in their positions" and demonstrated "a strong commitment to the mission and values of I I 
I I Corporation." The record contains screenshots from I l's website, including 
back round information regarding the company and an article indicating that a program called 
;--------,....----' was a "big winner" at the 2019 I IA wards. The submitted screenshots from 
.__ ___ _.s website, however, did not include information regarding the company's awards program, 
the number, types and categories of awards, the criteria for nomination, or any other information 
regarding the 'I I' employee recognition system. 
As such, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient background regarding the level of recognition 
associated with his "Division-level Award," and we note that although the record contains two letters 
from representatives ot1 I Corporation, neither of them mentioned the Petitioner's award or 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 
3 
its significance. While it does appear thatl I holds a formal awards ceremony as part of its 
employee recognition program, the record does not contain evidence to support the Petitioner's claim 
that the awards are open to those working outside the company, nor is there evidence that "Division­
level award" certificates are recognized at such ceremonies. For example, a photograph of the awards 
event from the company website shows individuals receiving a trophy. Notably, the Petitioner's 
certificate of recognition indicates that his team was nominated for a I I Award in the Team 
Category, but there is no evidence that his team won the I I A ward. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
did not offer sufficient independent, objective evidence reflecting the national or international 
recognition associated with his division-level award certificate from I I 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence that he claims he was unable to obtain previously due 
to disruptions caused by typhoons in the Phili ines. The newly submitted evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner was the first-place winner of a design contest sponsored by the Philippines 
Department of Agriculture~----~ Program in 2012. As the first prize winner, he received 
P25,000, a plaque and a certificate. The record reflects that the Petitioner was named among the other 
prize winners in a newspaper article published following the conclusion of the contest, but the name 
of the newspaper and the scope of its circulation are not provided. While it appears that the ~ 
I I design contest was sponsored by a national government office and accepted entries from 
throughout the Philippines, the record does not establish the level of recognition associated with this 
competition and its prizes. As such, the Petitioner has not established that his first-place award in this 
special contest is considered a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets his criterion based on his "membership" with Korea­
Philippines Information Technology Training Center, but the attached evidence demonstrated only 
that he completed a trainin course in animation at the center in 2008. The Petitioner also argued that 
he was a "member" of However, the supporting evidence, which included a 
letter from~ ____ __, o~~--------~- and the Petitioner's own resume, indicates that 
the Petitioner was employed by this company as a freelance 3D animator from February 2007 until 
July 2017. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner described~-------~ as "a group of 
professionals involved in pre-and post-production of 2D and 3D animation, television programs and 
specials," noting that "membership in this association is limited to individuals of proven track record 
and outstanding in the field of 3D animations." He also submitted a second letter from~ 
stating that the Petitioner was "a member of this group from February 2017 to July 2017."r====J 
indicates that the organization is "open to all 3D animator professionals" but intending members must 
undergo a process that includes a portfolio review, review of their curriculum vitae and achievements, 
and a 20-minute questionnaire related to 3D animation. It appears thatl J has described the 
company's hiring process for animators, and the record remains devoid of supporting evidence 
indicating that.__ ______ ~ _ __. is an association that offers "membership" rather than a 
company with that offers employment to qualified applicants. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence related to this criterion, including a letter from 
I I founder of the 3D Mentors Group at the I I University I I 
I I He states that the group was established to help students and graduates of the program to 
gain access to the animation industry, and indicates that he promoted the Petitioner to 'junior member" 
of the group when he was a senior at the university "because of his display of great mastery in only a 
short period of time." The Petitioner submits a screenshot from the 3D Mentor's group Facebook 
page, but does not provide any additional evidence regarding the group, such as its membership 
criteria, bylaws, or process for selecting members. I l's letter alone is insufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner's membership in this group meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provides screenshots indicating that he is a member of a Facebook group 
called I I' which is described as a "private group for students of I l'sl Ion I l" The Petitioner does not explain how his 
participation in a Facebook group designed for students enrolled in an online course qualifies as 
membership in an association in which members are required to demonstrate outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner claimed to meet this criterion based on his direction of a music video for the song ~---------~ by I I The record reflects that the video has been 
uploaded to Y ouTube and contains testimonial evidence indicating that the video has aired MTV and 
on MYX ChanveJ jn the Pbi]jppj~es. The Petitioner also provided a letter from I I the 
lead vocalist of I._ _______ __,Janda published article aboutl l which does not mention 
the Petitioner or his work. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because he did not present published materials that are 
primarily about him and relating to his work in the field. We agree with the Director's analysis of the 
5 
evidence and note that the Petitioner has not contested that analysis on appeal or pursued his claim 
that the video for '~---------~ satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner does, however, submit a copy of a newspaper article title __ ._ __________ __. 
~--------~ which he claims he was unable to obtain previously. As noted above, the 
article provides background information regarding the purpose of the design contest and names the 
various prize winners, noting that the Petitioner won first prize in the digital art category with a 
P25,000 cash prize. The article, however, is about the contest and its winners as a whole, and is not 
about the Petitioner and his work. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Further, the provided 
newspaper clipping does not identify the title of the newspaper, the date of publication, or the author 
of the material. Finally, the Petitioner has not established that the unidentified publication in which 
the article appeared qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media in the 
Philippines. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on his previous submission of"[ n ]umerous 
references and supporting letters ... that provide contextual information about the petitioner's 
significant contribution in his field." Specifically, the record shows that the Petitioner f<re~ 
argued that the following evidence satisfies this criterion: (1) two letters froml of L____,.,,_J I I along with examples of artwork he com=leted as a 3D artist with that 
~any; (2) his own statement describing his work withl land (3) a letter from I I 
L_JCollege I I. 
The Petitioner stated that his work withl I was "excitin " and that he had "the opportunity 
to work with one of the biggest international com ames " He also states that "95%" of his 
work had "good reviews" and he believes '---~-~__.is happy about it." The earlier letter from I l praises the Petitioner's "unbelievable talent in 3D and impressive work ethics" noting that 
he was able to "achieve best quality result of products & services to our clients" and his "expertise in 
3D Animation was a huge advantage to the entire company." The second letter froml I notes 
that his "excellent body of work had been instrumental in keeping our clients satisfied and loyal," and 
states that he was considered "one of our rising stars, a definite asset to the company." 
The letter froml I Colle gel I was written brl I chairperson of the 
animation program from which the Petitioner graduated in 2014. I praises the Petitioner's 
thesis project I I as "so creative and exceptional" and notes that the "thesis has been 
showcased, compiled and archived in our university library and made available for viewing by students 
6 
of this university especially those who specializes in this field." I also indicates that his 
department solicits the Petitioner's help with complicated projects because it considers him "an expert 
3D animator." Finally] I notes that the Petitioner's "influence and legacy to this university 
made him our choice to be part of the panel of judges in the 2015 Animation Thesis Evaluation." 
While the letters applaud the Petitioner's abilities and commitment, they do not identify original 
contributions that he has made to the field, nor do they explain how his contributions have been of 
major significance in the field outside ofl I or the animation department at his former 
university. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics or use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he is submitting additional evidence demonstrating that his work 
"constitutes major significant contributions to the field and detailing specific impact and influence of 
original work." This newly submitted evidence includes a Certificate of Appreciation presented to the 
Petitioner for volunteering as an art mentor for a two-day basic drawing skills class held at Rotary 
Club-sponsored Summer Education Outreach Workshop held in April 2013. The certificate is 
accompanied by a letter thanking him for his efforts, noting that he played "an integral role in ensuring 
every kid's interest in the arts" and "inspired young children and their parents to new hope." While 
this new evidence indicates that the Petitioner made an impact on the schoolchildren participating in 
the art workshop, the evidence does not establish how his participation in this program is an original 
contribution or how his two days of volunteer service remarkably influenced his field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden to show that he has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
This criterion requires the Petitioner to provide evidence that he has authored scholarly articles in the 
field which have been published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. A 
scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. 7 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his thesis project titled ~I -----~ 
which he created to fulfill the requirements for his bachelor of arts in animation. The record contains 
letters froml I College I I indicating that the hardbound thesis is archived at 
the school's Leaming Resource Center and has been digitally archived. The Petitioner also provided 
evidence that the thesis project, a video, was uploaded to Vimeo.com and is accessible with a 
password. We agree with the Director's determination the Petitioner did not establish that he 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
7 Id. 
7 
"authored scholarly articles" as there is no evidence of a written component to his thesis project. 
Further the record does not establish that the Petitioner's video thesis project was published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Rather, it appears that the project is 
accessible by persons associated with his college and accessible online by those who have a password. 
The Petitioner has also claimed eligibility under this criterion based on evidence of acka e design 
artwork and 3D renderings that he created while employed byLr------,_ ____ ____J Here, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the drawings he created at~----~ constituted scholarly 
articles that appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media or that they 
were created for "learned" persons, rather for the general staff of his employer and its clients. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his work was on 
display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 As noted, the Petitioner P,rovided 
evidence that he directed and participated in post-production of the music video for the song I I I r performed by the band~------ which can be viewed on y ouTube 
and social media and is claimed to have aired on "MYX Channel 23 sometime i~ 1201 J " Ibe 
Petitioner also submitted evidence that his 3D designs created for his new employer,! I 
were presented at a jewelry trade show, and photographs or screenshots of "original art creations" that 
he claims he submitted "for presentation at a number of events and competitions and research and 
conferences" while he was a university student. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the upload of a music video directed by the Petitioner 
to YouTube does not qualify as the display of his work at an artistic exhibition or showcase. Similarly, 
while the Petitioner's current employer indicates that his 3D jewelry designs were on display at the 
company's trade show booths, the purpose of an industry trade show is not to exhibit or showcase the 
work of individual artists. Further, these trade shows took place subsequent to the filing of the petition. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Finally, the Petitioner did not provide evidence to support his claim that his "original art creations" 
were displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases. He generally states that his art, copies of which 
were provided, has been presented at "events and competitions" but does not provide identify those 
events with specificity or document the appearance of his artwork at a particular artistic showcase or 
exhibition. Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
8 
The Petitioner submitted letters from his employers, a letter from his university, and copies of training 
certificates in support of this criterion. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. 9 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 10 
The Petitioner provided two letters froml l a Post Production Manager a 
I I, where the Petitioner worked as a freelance 3D animator. =====~~==~,....p_r_ai __ s_e_s_t_h_e_. 
Petitioner's creative and technical skills, states that the Petitioner assisted him with his work and 
improved his understanding of 3D techniques, and indicates that worked with him on "various 3D 
Animations projects." In addition,! I indicates that "our company became one of the 
country's best in 3D design and animation," as a result of the Petitioner's "ability to evolve and 
complete 3D design projects combined with his steadfast commitment to top notch 3D design quality 
and production." However, his statement is too general to establish how the Petitioner had a leading 
or critical role in the company and how he contributed to its reP,utation as "one of the country's best.". 
In a subsequent letterj I stated that the Petitioner wasl Is "on-call 3D Artist 
Consultant for some of our most complicated projects for a while," noting that the company was 
"happy with his advice and opinions," but did indicate that he considered the Petitioner responsible 
for the company's reputation in 3D design. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from I I of.__ __________ ~ who states 
that the Petitioner initially worked in the company's art department as a 3D artist "to fulfill our needs 
for 3D visualizations of various sets throughout the film project." I I notes that he later moved 
into the position of 3D animator where he "displayed the design skills to transform a verbal brief into 
a 3D set with minimal references" and "was able to layout and model 3D that looked good enough to 
[p ]resent for directorial approval." 
In addition, the Petitioner provided two letters from former supervisors at.__ ________ .....,... 
Corporation, where he worked in 2015. I I states that the Petitioner worked on his team 
as a 3D/Visual effects artist for television projects, primarily for the programl , . I D I I states that the Petitioner's role on the team "is considered the most meticulous, very detailed 
and time-consuming part." He praises the Petitioner's creative and technical abilities, dedication, work 
ethic and willingness to work long hours. I I, a visual effects manager at I I 
states that the Petitioner was hired for his "exemplary knowledge and technical techniques." He states 
that the Petitioner stands out from other artists based on his creativity and artistic skills, computer and 
technological skills, and his ability to work on a team rod manage deadlines. The letters, however, do 
not specifically articulate how the Petitioner impacted_ k achievements or reputation. 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
io Id. 
9 
The submitted letters do not establish that the Petitioner held a leading position, nor do they contain 
specific information signifying the Petitioner's essential roles in these companies. 11 On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that this criterion "does not necessarily require a showing that the alien's role was 
leading or critical to the organization as a whole" and that he need only show he was critical to a "key 
component." He states, for example, that "the director of a regional program at an international aid 
organization," or "the director of an athletics program at a university with a distinguished record in 
that field of sports." The evidence does not, however, establish how his roles as a 3D artist or animator 
were equivalent to the roles he offers as examples. 
Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's employment, they do not reflect detailed, probative 
information demonstrating the specific nature and outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. 
Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the record does not contain evidence that 
[the Petitioner] was responsible for an organization's or establishment's success or standing to a 
degree consistent with the meaning of leading or critical role. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner's employers valued his work but emphasized that he did not submit evidence that 
distinguished his roles as leading or critical to his employers. 
In addition to the letters already discussed, the Petitioner provided evidence that he completed three 
animation workshops offered by AutoDesk Authorized Training Center, and states that he "was asked 
to teach in the Auto Desk Training Company" as evidenced by photographs that show him in a 
classroom setting. He does not however, submit any additional evidence from Autodesk, such as a 
letter confirming his role as a trainer, or copies of certificates identifying him as a course instructor, 
nor does the Petitioner's resume contain any reference to his position as a course instructor for 
Autodesk. The evidence is insufficient to establish that he performed in a leading or critical role for 
that organization. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 12 
As evidence that he meets this criterion, the Petitioner submitted photographs taken at._l ____ _. 
Comic Con in 201 7. The photographs depict him with four individuals identified as voice actors from 
I l a po1ular video game produced by~-------~ He also provided a photograph 
of anl Jposter that was autographed by the actors. 
11 Id. (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
10 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because he did not provide 
evidence relating to his own commercial success in the performing arts. The Director emphasized that 
the regulation does not allow for alternative measures of an individual's commercial success other 
than those stated in the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence demonstrates that he "obtained 
signatures and well-wishers [sic] from prestigious 3D animator voice recording actors and actresses 
to show their support to the art of petitioner."13 The Petitioner does not, however, acknowledge or 
contest the Director's determination that the plain language of the regulation does not allow for 
submission of evidence other than box office receipts, video sales, or sales of other recorded media, 
and that such receipts and sales must be attributable to his own work in the performing arts. We agree 
with the Director's determination that the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 We note that the Petitioner has neither indicated nor documented that he attended Comic Con in a professional capacity 
as an animator or artist. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6245728 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 17, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a textile embroidery artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as an embroidery designer with .__ _________ __. I I inl I New York. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
displayed her work at artistic exhibitions. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
met the artistic display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets six additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner lgues that she meets this crjterjr based on her first place finish in the contest, l I 0" from the.__ __________ __,. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the 
basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or 
awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on 
competitors. 2 
She provides! Is charter indicating that "[b]ased on the merit and accomplishments, the Union 
nominates and presents individuals the national awards and certificates, for that purpose it cooperates 
with various organizations and structures of the State." In addition, the Petitioner submits two letters 
from I I chairman of ~ who discussed I Is goals and membership 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
requirements and claimed that "the Union consults the Minister of Culture during organizTg natTnal 
and international exhibitions and presentations" and "[ a ]wards and prizes given by the are 
[n]ationally revered." 
The issue for this criterion is not whether an alien competed in an event with cooperation from a 
governmental department but whether the bestowed prizes or awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1ere, re Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
first place finish in the "Visual Arts" contest from represents a nationall or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. Furthermore, ........, __ ~ _ ____. did not provide 
specific, detailed information explaining or justifying his assertion that ~-~s award~ and prizes "are 
[ n ]ationlally rrered." In addition, the Petitioner, for example, did not offer supporting evidence 
beyond showing the field's recognition of her first place finish in the contest. Moreover, the 
~mer did not establish the national or international significance of her first place finish from the 
L_Jcontest. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, she did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership withOand references the 
same documentation discussed above. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
According to the charter, a I member must be a citizen of Georgia or a non-citizen individual 
permanently residing in the country, at least 18 years of age, and an artist, art critic, folk creator, or 
craft master who recognizes the board ofl I In addition, "[b ]ecoming a member of the Union is 
based on a written statement." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such membership 
requirements reflect "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Here, the 
evidence does not show that membership is clntingrt upon making accomplishments that rise to the 
level of "outstanding achievements." Instead, membership requires general conditions, such as 
citizenship, age, and professional status. Moreover, although I I claimed that"[ o ]ne can 
only become a member by invitation based on their achievements, talent and accomfclishment in the 
art world," the charter does not support his assertions. Regardless,! did not provide 
detailed, specific information defining "achievements, talent and accomplishment," so as to represent 
"outstanding achievements" as required under this regulatory criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that rcog[ ized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with 4 According to the charter, "[t]he charter and 
resolutions of the Union determine acceptance of a member." However the charter does not reflect 
that recognized national or international experts judge membership for D nor does the Petitioner 
indicate the provisions in the charter where such requirement is located. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on material from six websites. In order 
to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 5 
At the outset, the Petitioner provides screenshots from an article posted on kvira.ge; however, the 
article is dated after the filing of the initial petition. 6 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that this article qualifies for eligibility at initial filing of the petition. 
Moreover, the evidence does not include the date of the article posted on goga.tv and the authors of 
the remaining material posted on bm.ge, press.ge, newstimes.ge, and dicraft.co. The inclusion of the 
title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Furthermore, although the articles posted on goga.tv and press.ge reflect interviews about the 
Petitioner, the other material is not about her relating to her work. Specifically, as it relates to bm.ge, 
the evidence appears to show still shots of an interview of the Petitioner; however, the Petitioner did 
not submit transcripts to establish published material about her relating to her work. In addition, the 
screenshot from newstimes.ge announces an exhibition of the Petitioner's work without a discussion 
about her. Similarly, the screenshots from dicraft.co biogs about the Petitioner's work without 
indicating published material about her. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6-7. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 The record reflects that the Petitioner filed her petition on April 13, 2018, and kvira.ge posted the article on._l __ _. 
2018. 
4 
Finally, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the material occurred in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. While the Petitioner provides monthly website visits for goga.tv, 
bm.ge, and kvira.ge, she did not demonstrate the significance of these figures or show how such data 
reflects status as a major medium. 7 Moreover, although the Petitioner submitted "about us" 
documentation from press.ge and newstimes.ge, the evidence shows background information about 
the websites without indicating their standings as major media. Further, the Petitioner did not submit 
independent, probative evidence to support the websites' claims. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). In addition, the 
Petitioner did not offer major medium evidence relating to dicraft.co. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires an alien to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 8 The Petitioner submits evidence showing that she 
served on a jury panel for two art competitions. Accordingly, the Petitioner established that she fulfills 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues eligibility for this criterion based on leading roles for the.__ _____ __. I ~ andl ~ 9 As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must 
establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to 
establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 
She references a letter from.__ ________ ____. chairwoman oti l who claimed that the 
Petitioner "is one of the best artists in the indust " and "she played a leading role in the success of 
our organization and in the promotion of and culture nationally and worldwide." In 
addition, she cites a letter from~----~' director ofl I who indicated that the 
Petitioner served on a jury panel for a children competition and was later hired as "Head of Art 
Department and Teacher of Embroidery." 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
9 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does record reflect, that she performed in critical roles forc=J and~I ___ ____. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
The letters, however, do not contain detailed information demonstrating that she performed in a 
leading role for either orJanization. 11 Moreover, did not identify the role the 
Petitioner held. Instead; I made broad statements regarding the Petitioner's 
skills and abilities without showin how the Petitioner used those traits to perform in a leading role. 
Furthermore, .__ ____ ---,-----.---' did not further elaborate or exf ain how the Petitioner 
contributed to the success of.____~ and the promotion ofl._ _____ _.. Repeating the language 
of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. 
v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d41 (2d. Cir. l990);Avyr Associates, 
Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Likewise, did not show how serving on a competition jury reflects the Petitioner's 
leading position t overall. In addition, although the Petitioner was appointed to "Head 
of Art Department,'~----~ did not offer further information, such as how the Petitioner's role 
"°Lnared In the other departmental heads. Moreover, in relation tol Is role as director 
of_ ] the Petitioner performed in a far lesser role. Further, while I I praises the 
Petitioner for "creat[ing] a relaxed and supportive classroom atmosphere that allowed the students to 
explore their individual artistic potential" and "giving praise when earned and insightful guidance 
where improvement was warranted,'' she did not demonstrate how the Petitioner's teaching 
characteristics established her leading position with I I Here, the lack of specific 
information does not provide probative information to show the Petitioner's leading roles for the 
organizations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that I I or I I enjlys a dtinguished 
reputation.12 Regar · the Petitioner submits four articles announcing festivals in 
Georgia. However, is never mentioned in any of the a~jc)es nor do tjey indicate! ~s 
reputation. As it relates t--~~----.1 the Petitioner references.__ ____ __. s letter who indicated 
that the organization "exist[ s] to feed creative development and facilitate emotional expression in 
children" and "encouragrsl our students to reach their full potential and instill within them a passion 
for the arts." Although I described the goals ofl I the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how the organization's intended purposes show its distinguished reputation. Here, the 
Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the organizations, how 
their reputations compare to similar establishments, or how their successes or accomplishments relate 
to others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that this is one criterion where letters from 
individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to 
USCIS officers in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition 
of"distinguished" as marked by eminence. distinction, or excellence). 
6 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on her salaries from her current employment 
with I I and past employment with I I and I I as well as from sales of her 
individual pieces of artwork. In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her 
salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 13 
At the outset, the Petitioner offers a letter from I I indicating employment since February 18, 
2019, approximately a year after she filed her petition. However, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her salary from herl I establishes eligibility at the time of filing her initial petition. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
As it relates to I I she provides a 2014 "Labor Agreement" reflecting a contractual salary of 
4,000 Georgian Lari (GEL).14 In addition, she submits average monthly wages from geostat.ge 
regarding "[a]rts, entertainment and recreation" of 581.6 GEL for the last quarter of 2014. Moreover, 
she presents a screenshot from salaryexpert.com showing an average yearly base salary of23,639 GEL 
for fashion artists and 29,551 GEL for senior level fashion artists. 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that her contractual salary is high in relation to others in her field. 
Although the Petitioner claims that her contractual salaries reflect her monthly wages, the labor 
agreement does not support her assertion. As indicated above, the labor agreement states her salary 
without specifying monthly payments. Even if they are monthly wages, her comparable evidence 
shows the average salaries of broad fields rather than the high salaries of other textile embroidery 
artists. 15 See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
Regardin~ I, she provides a 2015 "Labor Agreement" reflecting a contractual salary of 
2,000 GEL.16 Further, she offers average monthly wages from geostat.ge relating to "[c]raft and 
related trades workers" of 1,073 GEL and "[t]eaching professionals" of 648.8 GEL for 2017. 
According to the labor agreement, the Petitioner "is obliged to perform the following job requirements: 
[ v ]olumetric embroidery teacher responsibilities and to participate in the activities planned by the 
organization." However, the Petitioner intends to seek classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability as a textile embroidery artist rather than as an embroidery teacher, a separate and distinct 
occupation and field. Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that her wages as a teacher establishes 
her eligibility for this criterion. Regardless, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not 
13 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
14 The contractual term for C=:J reflects a period of one year. 
15 The Petitioner also submits the average salaries of Georgians; however, this regulatory criterion requires that an alien 
commands a high salary in relation to others in the field rather than comparing the wages to the overall workers in Georgia. 
16 The contractual term f011 I shows a period of two years. 
7 
show that she commanded a high salary in relation to others in her field as she compared her salary to 
the average wages of teachers. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she earned wages 
froml las a textile embroidery artist. 
Finally, the Petitioner presents letters from individuals indicating that they purchased pieces of her 
artwork, along with unidentified cash deposit and payment orders. Here, the Petitioner earned 
remuneration for services based on the sales of her artwork. However, the Petitioner did not offer 
comparative evidence for remuneration of other textile embroidery artists' earnings from artwork 
sales. Thus, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she commanded a significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to others in her field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has judged two competitions for aspiring artists and displayed her work, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7880571 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 17, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an author and screenwriter , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, determining that the Petitioner did 
not establish that she satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which 
she must meet at least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a published novelist and a screenwriter for several Chinese television series. She 
also wrote and directed the feature filml lwhich was released internationally in 2015. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to six of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) but did not establish that she met any of them. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets four criteria, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, published materials in major media, judging the work of others, and commercial success in 
the performing arts.1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that she meets at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's prizes or awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the authorship of scholarly 
articles and leading or critical roles criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(vi) and (viii), respectively, but did not satisfy these 
criteria. The Petitioner does not contest these issues on appeal and therefore we deem them to be waived. See, e.g., ~\fatter 
of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion based on the following awards:4 
• 2016 l ~ Award for Best Screenwriter at the ,__ _______ _.Film Festival 
(awarded to Petitioner) 
• 20161 IFilm Award for Excellent Feature Film (awarded to the film~I ____ ___,. 
With respect to the I I award, the Petitioner previously submitted: a copy of the award 
certificate naming her as the winning screenwriter; a screenshot from the website of the n 
I \ Film Festival held in 2018; an article about the closing ceremony of the I ~ I Film Festival which mentions the Petitioner's receipt of the screenwriting award; an entry 
regarding the ,__ ____ ___. A ward" from the online Chinese encyclopedia Baike 
(www.baike.com/wiki); and a letter froml I attesting to the award's national recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a second published article regarding the closing ceremony of the 
,__ _______ ~!Film Festival. 
The evidence is sufficient to establish that the Petitioner was the recipient of the 2016~1 ____ _. 
award for screenwriting for the filml I However, we agree with the Director that the 
record does not establish that it is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. 
The information provided on the festival's website indicates tha~ IFilm Festival "is 
the first national film festival in New China I I" and that it has been held bi-annually 
since 1992. The website farther reflects that the film festival il "1mided hv the National Film Bureau, 
hosted by the Central Radio and Television General Bureau, the_ !People's Government, 
and th~ I People's Government." The limited background information provided 
here is insufficient to establish the level of national or international recognition associated with the 
festival's I t awards. Although the submitted screenshot shows that the festival's website 
includes a section specifically discussing the 1 !Award," the Petitioner did not provide 
screenshots from that section. 
The Petitioner also submitted background information regarding thel I Awards from the 
Baike online encyclopedia, which also includes a list of previous award winners. According to 
materials submitted by the Petitioner, Baike is a user-edited online encyclopedia, similar to Wikipedia. 
As there are no assurances about their reliability, the content from open, user-edited Internet sites will be 
accorded no evidentiary weight. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F .3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008). 
In support of her claim that thel I is a nationally recognized award for excellence in the 
Chinese film industry, the Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I who is claimed to be 
3 Id. 
4 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on her receipt of a First Class of A ward for 
I I for her novel I I in 1992, and based on her receipt of the honorary title I I I I" issued by the China Radio and Television 
Association in 2011. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the film industry awards mentioned above and 
does not address these two awards. 
3 
an expert in the field. The letter states, "I hereby prove that thel IFilm Festival is a 
national film festival in China" and "[ t ]hel I A ward is the national award of China. "I I 
I I indicates that the festival is organized by "the highest administrative authority of the Central 
Government of China in managing movies" thereby making the festivals it organizes "China's national 
awards." According to the letter, thel I Film Festival is "known as one of the China's 
four major film festivals" and "Chinese filmmakers take pride in winning these awards." 
We note that, although I I 8tates that they are a member of the "China Film Association," 
the letter is not accompanied by evidence of this individual's background or qualifications, or any 
background regarding the association they claim to represent. USCIS may, in its discretion, use as 
advisory opinions statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted 
in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
However, the submission of letters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence 
of eligibility. Id. USCIS may give less weight to an opinion that is not corroborated. Id. 
Finally, as noted, the record contains two brief online articles about the closing ceremony of the 2016 I I Film Festival, at which the festival's! IAwards were given. One article 
is from China News Network (www.chinanews.com). The second article, although published by the 
website www.xinhuanet.com, identifies Guangming Daily as the article's source. The article is 
accompanied by background information regarding Guangming Daily from that publication's own 
website, (www.gmw.cn). The Petitioner emphasizes that Guangming Daily is one of China's major 
newspapers, thereby establishing that the awards ceremony received major media coverage. However, 
we cannot determine that this newspaper actually published the article absent evidence that it appeared 
in its print or online edition. Further, the two submitted articles are not sufficient to establish that the I I award winners receive a level of media coverage that is commensurate with a nationally 
or internationally recognized award in the entertainment industry. 
Regarding the 20161 I Award for Excellent Feature Film, the Petitioner submitted a copy 
of the awa~ certificate- an online rurticle from China Wrilersl{l.chinawriters.com.cn) about the 
I IAwards Ceremony held inl I in 2016; and another expert opinion 
letter from I 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate her own receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. Here, the Petitioner 
did not receive the I IA ward; rather, the film and its investors and 
production companies are the named recipients. The second letter from l writing in their 
capacity as a professor at thel I Film Academy, indicates that the[ IFilm Award is 
one of the top three awards in the Chinese film industry and states: 
Since the I I Film Awards Excellent Film Award is awarded to the film, 
the copyrighted investor becomes the named recipients on the award certificate. But 
what it really rewards is actually the screenwriter, the director and the actor/actress. 
All industry insiders and the general audience will attribute the success of the film to 
screen writer, the director and the actor/actresses, not to the investors. 
4 
However, the Petitioner submitted little background information regarding thel I film awards, 
such as a complete list of all of the award categories from the organizer of the awards or another 
reliable source. The submitted article from China Writers indicates that 20 awards were given at the 
Film Awards ceremony, including "the Best Feature Film Award and each individual L...-----....,.....J'--------, award." If the~----~ Film Awards bestow "individual awards," then it is reasonable to believe 
that those include awards for roles such as acting, directing, and screenwriting. If the organizers 
intended to recognize the Petitioner individually for her role as director and/or screenwriter ofl I 
.__ __ __.I it appears that they could have done so by bestowing her with an individual award. While 
we recognize that both of these roles are essential in filmmaking, it remains that the Petitioner was not 
the recipient of the .__ ____ ____.Film A ward and therefore the award does not satisfy the plain 
language of this regulation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from both English-language and Chinese publications in 
support of this criterion. While some of the published materials appeared in major media including 
The New York Times! Variety, and The Hollywood Reporter, the articles from these sources were 
reviews of the movie I While these and other articles 5 identify the Petitioner as the 
film's director, they are not articles about her but rather reviews of the film she wrote and directed. 
Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 6 
Several of the published articles from Chinese media are about the Petitioner and relate to her work as 
a screenwriter and director; however, these articles are not accompanied by evidence that they were 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The evidence includes an 
online article published by China Daily (www.chinadaily.com.cn), which was accompanied by a 
Wikipedia entry regarding this publication. We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, 
collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See 
General Disclaimer, Wikipedi a, https: // en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_ disclaimer (last 
visited Mar. 13, 2020); see also Badasa, 540 F.3d at 910-11. 
The Petitioner also provided online articles that are about her and relate to her work which were 
published by Multidimensional News ( culture.dwnews.com), China News Network 
(www.chinanews.com, citing Literary Gazette as its source), Netease (money.163.com, citing Times 
5 The Petitioner also provided online reviews oti !published by Screen Daily, China Source (a blog), Sina 
Entertainment, and Film Journal, as well as capsule summaries of the film that accompanied the announcement of its 
release in the publications Screen Anarchy and SF Weekly. Like the other reviews, these a1iicles are not about the Petitioner. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
5 
Weekly, Guangzhou as its source), Phoenix Entertainment (ent.ifeng.corn), and People's Network 
(people.corn.en), citing Beijing Morning Post as its source. In addition to the online articles, the 
Petitioner submitted two print articles, one published by Oriental Outlook, and one by Beijing 
Entertainment News. 
None of these articles was accompanied by supporting evidence demonstrating that they were 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. As it relates to Literary 
Gazette, Oriental Outlook, and Beijing Entertainment News, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
Baidu encyclopedia describing these publications, a website that is claimed to be comparable to Baike 
or Wikipedia. However, for the reasons already discussed, on-line, open source encyclopedia articles 
are not a reliable source of information. With respect to Times Weekly, the Petitioner provided 
background information regarding this publication from a website called World of Reading 
(sdzk.dooland.corn) which provides a circulation figure for the newspaper. Regardless, even if we 
determined that the circulation figures provided on this website and on Baidu were reliable, the 
Petitioner did not provide additional evidence demonstrating the significance of those figures and 
comparative circulation or distribution figures in support of a claim that any of these publications 
would be considered major media consistent with this regulatory criterion. 7 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that she has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that she actually participated in judging of the work of others in the same or 
allied field of specialization. 
The Petitioner initiall submitted an undated "Letter of Appointment" appointing her to be a "Judging 
Expert for the of National Teenager Reciting Performance of Creative 
Works" for the period '~------~2018." The letter was attributed to three competition 
sponsors which included the Chinese Poetry Society Reciting Performance Committee and the Beijing 
Education Association. 
She also provided an online article which indicates that the launching ceremony for th~ I~---~ 
of the competition was held on I I 201 7, eight months before her arpointrnent as a judge 
began. Another online article was about the finals of the I I of the L I, which 
lasted 180 days and ended inl 1201 7. 
Later, in response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a "Verification" froni I 
who states that she is the principal o~ I Primary School. I I states that "[ o ]nl 12018, 
I participated in the jury of the original works of the.__ _____ ....,..........National Youth Recitation 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 
Competition. I hereby prove that [ the Petitioner] also participated in the jury work." I I states 
that judges were selected by the competition's organizing committee "from a nationwide selection of 
well-known educations, literary and artistic workers, and foll-time youth workers." Finally, she states 
that she, the Petitioner, and another judged awarded a total of 100 first, second and third prize awards 
out of 731 original works, noting that the "the works participating in the competition must have a 
certain level of literacy and be understood by the young and easy to recite," with "selected works 
eligible to be reciting by the participating students in the national competition." 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the plain language of the criteria because 
the competition was for children or teenagers and therefore, she could not establish that she had judged 
the work of her "peers." On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that she judged "literature works written 
for teenagers to recite on a national scale competition" and therefore established that she judged the 
work of other writers. 
The language of the regulation requires that the Petitioner demonstrate that she participated "as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization." We agree with the Petitioner 
that judging written works, regardless of the intended audience, would be within her field of 
specialization. However, we find insufficient evidence to establish that she actually participated as a 
the judge in the com etition. There is an unexplained inconsistency between the Petitioner's dates of 
appointment (,___~-----~2018") and I Is statement that the Petitioner served as a judge 
for one day in 2018. The record does not contain evidence from the competition's organizers or 
clarifying when thel I competition actually concluded in 2018 or in what stage the 
Petitioner participated as a judge. For these reasons, we find I I's letter alone insufficient to verify 
the Petitioner's participation as a judge in the competition, and she has not established that she meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 8 
The Petitioner states that she meets this criterion based on the commercial success o 
In support of her claim, she submitted a letter from~-=---=----.-------..---------,,--_., one 
of the film's production companies. According to the letter~-----~"received bo~ 
receipts in the amount of RMB 216,053,160,63 which was the box office receipts champion forl__J 
2015 for Chinese language movies. It is a great success for an art movie." The Petitioner stated that 
this figure was equivalent to over $31 million at the time. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion based on a finding that she "is 
not a performing artist" because her "field of endeavor defines [her] as a screen writer; thus not 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 
meeting the plain language of this criterion." On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that she should be 
credited with the commercial success of the film as its screenwriter and director. 
However, we note that even if we determined that this criterion is applicable to the Petitioner based 
on her role as the I ts director and screenwriter, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence corroborating the movie's box office receipts or any supporting evidence demonstrating the 
commercial success of the film relative to that of others in the industry. Although the submitted letter 
from one of the film's investors indicates that it was the highest grossing Chinese language film in I I 2015, it is not accompanied by industry or media reports or comparable evidence to support 
this statement. We cannot make a determination regarding the film's relative success without this 
evidence. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19865708 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 17, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordin ary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preferenc e classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or internation al acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive document ation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C.2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l )(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . In these proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderanceofthe evidence eligibility for the requested benefit 
MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A brief summary of this proceeding reflects that the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria: awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . As such, we evaluated the 
totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 1 Based on this review, we 
concluded that the Petitioner did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim,2 that he 
is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian , 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 
As a preliminary matter, the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse 
decision. Accordingly, we examine any new arguments to the extentthat they pertain to our dismissing 
his appeal. Thus, the issue before us is whether we erred in evaluating the totality of the Petitioner's 
evidence in the final merits determination. 
On motion, the Petitioner contends that since we did not disturb the Director's decision relating to 
meeting three criteria, we contradicted ourselves by negating the evidence in the final merits 
determination. In addition, the Petitioner asserts that "since Regulation requires 3 criteria together to 
prove national or international acclaim, then one criterion has only to qualify 1/3 of national or 
international acclaim." The Petitioner made similar arguments on appeal, which we thoroughly 
addressed. Again, Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 set forth the multi-part analysis where a two-part 
review is conducted: the evidence is first counted to determine whether the individual fulfills at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria, and if so, then the totality of evidence is considered in the context of 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability undersection203(b)(l )(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of"sustain"as to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
2 
final merits determination to decide whether an individual is among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. While the Petitioner continues to maintain that simply 
satisfying three criteria is sufficient in showing eligibility for an extraordinary ability classification, 
for the reasons stated, both case law and USCIS policy do not support his assertions. 
In the final merits determination relating to his awards, we discussed the Petitioner's five awards and 
explained why they did not demonstrate his sustained national acclaim in his field and indicate that he 
is currently among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On motion, the 
Petitioner states that "[s]ince [the] Service Center admitted that [he] has met this criterion and [the] 
AAO has not in its opinion disqualified this criterion, [he] regards it as also admitted by AAO and 
does not need to further address this criterion." Here, the Petitioner does not contest or explain any 
error in our determination for this issue. 
Regarding published material, we concluded that he submitted one qualifying article reflecting 
published material about him and acknowledged that he provided ten other articles. Moreover, we 
determined that while his limited media coverage indicated that he had received some media 
recognition for certain roles and projects during his career, the record did not demonstrate that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim. On motion, the Petitioner claims that he "was 
rep01ied many times and [he] only selected 10 from the many reports" and "[h]ad [the] Service Center 
required a definite number of more than 10 reports by media in its RFE [he] could have providedmany 
more reports about [him]." In the case here, we evaluated the record based on the Petitioner's claims 
and his submitted documentation. If further media reporting existed and he wanted us to evaluate the 
evidence, then he shouldhave submitted the additional documentation. Moreover, itis the Petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not specify a ce1iain number of published 
articles to meet the first step in the Kazarian analysis but may be a consideration in the second part. 
This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the 
quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of 
evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of 
the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Chawathe, 
25 I&NDec. at 376. 
As it pertains to his judging experience, we determined that his single instance of judging in 2015 did 
not show him as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. On motion, the 
Petitioner contends that the "[r]egulation requires alien to judge the work of other peers," and "[i]t 
does not require such judgment made by an internationally top person." The first step of the Kazarian 
analysis involves determining whether the individual satisfies the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204 .5 (h)(3)(iv ), which requires evidence that the individual has participated as a judge of the work 
of others. Once the first step is achieved, then the totality of the evidence, including any judging 
experience, is evaluated in the second step of the analysis. Although we agree that an individual is 
not required to judge an internationally top person, the Petitioner did not show how his limited judging 
experience represented an individual as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner, for instance, did not demonstrate how his sole instance ofjudging of an 
internal organizational award at the China Film Performing Arts Institute in 2015 distinguished him 
within his field, reflecting sustained national or international acclaim or that his achievements have 
been recognized through extensive documentation. 
3 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we considered 
additional documentation in the record to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrated 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Specifically, we evaluated evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's membership with the China Theatre Association (CTA) and concluded that he did not 
establish that his membership was indicative of his sustained national or international acclaim, 
garnered him such acclaim, or that membership was reserved for those actors in the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. On motion, the Petitioner makes his prior assertion that "membership in 
CTA is one of the listed criteria towards providing his sustained national acclaim. Or his membership 
has met 1/3 of the requirement of national or international acclaim." Again, the Petitioner did not 
meet the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for the first part of the Kazarian analysis. 
Even ifhe did, simply satisfying the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) does 
not establish sustained national or international acclaim, as previously discussed. Regardless, we 
addressed his membership claims in the final merits determination and explained that the Petitioner 
did not show how is evidence qualified him for extraordinary ability classification. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that we erroneously applied law or 
policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 18, 2024 In Re: 30470612 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b )( 1)(A). 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish he met the initial evidentiary requirements through either a receipt ofa one-time achievement 
or satisfaction of at least three of the ten categories of evidence. We dismissed the appeal and two 
subsequent motion filings. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner provides a previously submitted table summarizing his eligibility claims for 
five of the regulatory criteria. In addition, the Petitioner references his recently obtained employment 
withl las a research scientist. The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" 
and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Therefore, we will only 
consider new evidence to the extent that it pertains to our latest decision dismissing the combined 
motion. Here, the Petitioner has not provided new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the 
prior motion. Furthermore, we addressed these arguments in our latest decision, as well as in our other 
prior decisions. Because the Petitioner has not established new facts that would warrant reopening of 
the proceeding , we have no basis to reopen our prior decision. 
Moreover, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time ofthe decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Again, our review on motion is limited 
to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
On motion, the Petitioner does not contest the correctness of our prior decision dismissing his second 
combined motion. Instead, the Petitioner's contentions in the current motion merely reargue eligibility 
claims we have already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 
56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, 
the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior 
Board decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition 
remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7953423 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software development executive and collateralized loan (CLO) specialist working in 
the field of business and financial technology, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirement of at least three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as the Vice President of Applications Development and CLO 
Loan Specialist with an investment firm. The evidence indicates that he has over 20 years of 
experience in software development in the financial technology field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that he met two of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his leading or critical role for a distinguished organization 
and to his high salary relative to others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets 
the evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions of major significance and membership in an 
association requiring outstanding achievements. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we disagree with the Director regarding the Petitioner's salary, and do not find that he meets the 
requisite three alternative evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he received a credential as a Chartered Financial Analyst (CF A) 
from the CF A Institute in 2017. In a letter submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) and resubmitted with his appeal, the President and CEO of the organization explains that the 
CF A Charter is awarded to a candidate after they become a member of the CF A Institute, obtain four 
years of professional work experience "in the investment decision-making process," and pass three 
exams. He also states that "only 16% of the candidates who enroll in this program end up earning the 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). We 
therefore consider these issues to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 
2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
charter," although he does not explain the reasons behind this statistic. Nevertheless, the Petitioner 
has not established that minimum experiential qualifications and the payment of dues to an association 
are achievements that demonstrate that a candidate stands out from his or her peers. In addition, there 
is insufficient evidence that successful completion of the exams is considered to be an outstanding 
achievement, or that the candidates for the CF A Charter are judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field of financial analysis. As such, the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, he may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner identifies his original business-related contribution as the migration, imQlementation 
and inte ration of a s ecialized a lication, for his current em lo er, 
He 
submitted several reference letters in support of this claim, including two additional letters 
accompanying his af peal brief 2 The first of these letters is co-signed by I I Chief 
Information Officer,_ I and a portfolio manager,! I It explains that the 
Petitioner "enhanced our internal systems by implementing and subsequently supplementing and 
enhancing I I a portfolio management analytics and reporting system," the results of which 
"has played an instrumental role in helping our CLO group develop into one of the firm's largest 
revenue generators." The writers go on to state that while the Petitioner's contributions are proprietary 
to I land have thus not been adopted by other investment firms, "they should be considered 
to be a significant contribution to his field as a whole givetj Is leadership role in the CLO 
industry." 
The second new reference letter submitted on appeal is signed byl I CEO of ._I __ _. 
.__------,-,-----' ._ ___ _.I confirms that while investment management firms typically employ 
vendor software applications, "many firms seek to develop their own proprietary technologies" which 
are confidential and may allow them to gain a competitive advantage. 
These letters are in addition to those submitted with the Petitioner's ori9inal filing and in response to 
the Director's RFE. One example was submitted byl J CEO of ~------~ r----i-------.=tz'_w:..:.h::.:.o.:..:.....:.in::.:.d.:::1:.::;· cates that he first met the Petitioner as a stock broker with the 
Stock Exchange.I !states that he is aware that the Petitioner's work madel I 
s "loan group highly technologically efficient," despite not claiming to have been employed by 
or worked with the company, and that I I fond managers like I I must "work with 
individuals with the requisite expertise and knowledge" like the Petitioner to design solutions meeting 
accounting and regulatory standards. 
2 All reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Another reference letter was written b who previously served as a product manager 
ofl I for its developer,~-~and worked with the Petitioner to implement the application 
at I ~ She describes the Petitioner's work to enhance! I and integrate it with other 
systems, and notes that he is "one of those top notch professionals in the wealth management world 
who are experts in IT and experts in structured financial instruments." I I also indicates 
that such individuals "are key players and their valuable contributions are very essential for continued 
U.S. economic success." 
In addition, in a separate reference letter previously submitted,! I indicates that "with the 
help of [the Petitioner's] team as well as the work of other teams at the firm, our loan business has 
grown to 7+ billion as of today and contributes meaningful revenue to the firm." 
While this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's original contribution to his employer has 
directly led to more efficient internal operations, improved customer service and business growth in 
its CLO group, it does not establish that it was of major significance to the investment management 
industry in which he is employed or in the overall field of business and financial technology. While 
we acknowledge that such proprietary technology, by its very nature, would not be implemented at 
other investment management firms, or applied more broadly by others in the financial technology 
field, it remains the Petitioner's burden to establish how his contribution has otherwise impacted his 
field of endeavor. The assertion that I Is position in the niche area of CLO trading leads to 
the conclusion that the Petitioner's contribution to his employer is of major significance for the broader 
investment management industry is not supported by the evidence. The record shows I I to 
be a reputable firm in the CLO market, having earned~ laward for "Best New US CLO" for 
LJbut does not otherwise demonstrate that its share of that market or in the investment management 
industry as a whole elevates the impact of the Petitioner's contribution to the requisite level. 
Accordingly, this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As noted above, the reference letters sufficiently establish that in implementing! I and 
integrating it with several other systems, leading to increased operational efficiency and customer 
satisfaction, the Petitioner played a critical role for I I In addition, the record sufficiently 
demonstrates thatl I enjoys a distinguished reputation. We agree with the Director that this 
criterion has been met. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 3 In his decision, the Director determined that the 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. 
4 
evidence establishes that the Petitioner's salary is high relative to others in his field. That evidence 
includes the Petitioner's IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018, which show that 
he earned approximately $151,000, $148,000, $164,000 and $148,000 during those years, 
respectively. The Petitioner also submitted evidence that his base salary at the time of filing was 
$150,000, that he earned a $12,000 bonus in 2018, and that the value of his benefits package was 
almost $35,000. However, because the comparative salary survey evidence submitted does not 
indicate that bonuses and benefits were included in all of those figures, we will only consider the 
Petitioner's base salary in making our determination. 
The Petitioner submitted comparative salary data from several sources, which is summarized in the 
table below: 
Source Job Title Location Avg./Med. Higher Salary 
Salary 
FLC Data Center SW Developer, I I $138,861 (Level n/a 
Applications IV) 
OOH SW Developer National $105,590 n/a 
Career One Stop SW Developer, National $77,710- n/a 
Applications $128,960 
(typical) 
US News SW Developer National $101,790 $128,960 (75%) 
Glassdoor SW Developer National $80,018 n/a 
Payscale SW Developer National $70,388 n/a 
We note that with the exception of the data from the U.S. Department of Labor's FLC Data Center, 
the salaries listed above are national averages which do not take into account variances due to local 
costs of living and other factors. This data is therefore not geographically appropriate, which can be 
seen in the significantly higher figure reported for j _ I in the FLC Data Center data, 4 and 
does not provide an accurate or complete basis for comparison to the Petitioner's salary. 
Although not submitted or referenced in the record, the FLC Data Center website provides an 
explanation of the four wage levels presented in its data. Employees at Level IV are considered to be 
"fully competent," "use advanced skills and diversified knowledge to solve unusual and complex 
problems," and "generally have management and/or supervisory responsibilities." As this description 
fits that of the Petitioner's skill level and duties as described in the record, it is the most appropriate 
wage level to use as a basis for comparison to the Petitioner's salary. In three of the four years of 
salary data provided, the Petitioner earned between approximately $10,000 -$13,000 above the Level 
IV wage for software developers inl , J while earning approximately $26,000 above that 
wage in 2017. Further, his base salary at the time of filing was approximately $11,000 above that FLC 
Data Center wage for 2018. This comparison with similarly situated workers inl I shows 
that while the Petitioner earned an above average salary, it does not establish that his salary was high 
in relation to those other software developers. Therefore, we disagree with the Director and find that 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
4 We note that a review of the source websites shows that in some cases, geographically appropriate data was publicly 
available. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6371588 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an attorney specializing in international tax law, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner met 
any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which three are required. 1 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
1 The Director initially denied the petition on August 17, 2018, due to abandonm ent. He then reopened the petition on the 
Petitioner's motion, and issued two additional RFEs before ultimately denying on the merits. 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner obtained a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University ofn in 1997 and a Master 
of Law degree from I I University in 2001. He is a member of~ High Court Bar 
Association I I, and has practiced in the area of international tax law for more than 20 years. 
The Petitioner indicates that he intends to work as an advisor or consultant for Indian businesses 
seeking to invest in the United States, or for Americans interested in investing in India. 2 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner refers back to his 
response to the Director's third request for evidence (RFE) in which he claimed to meet six evidentiary 
criteria. 3 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he has not satisfied the 
requirements of the requisite three criteria. 4 
2 In responding to the Director's third request for evidence, the Petitioner stated that he hopes "to attract investments from 
India and into the United States in the field of real estate and in other areas requiring business investment. For example, I 
have recently become involved in the marketing anf distribution of natural and herbal personal care products 
(manufactured in India) and throughl a Delaware Corporation, which I have formed." Because this 
statement indicates that he does not intend to continue working in in the United States in the area of his claimed 
extraordinary ability, international tax law, this issue must be addressed in any further proceedings in this matter. 
3 We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
4 The Petitioner's brief mentions several attachments, but the record does not include the referenced attachments. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, including evidence not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
The Petitioner also mentions several instances in the Director's RFEs and in his decision where the Director refers to him 
by a different name, or indicates that his field of endeavor is something other than international tax law. We have reviewed 
this correspondence and determined that, taken within the entire context of this correspondence, these errors did not 
materially affect the decision or deprive the Petitioner of a meaningful opportunity to successfully appeal the decision. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the ... l ___ _, 
but noted that the record lacked evidence to establish that this association requires outstanding 
achievements for membership. The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding regarding his 
membership in this association in his appeal brief 
The Petitioner also asserts that he meets this requirement based upjn his status as one of four senior 
standing counsels representing the I of India5 before the I I High 
Court, and refers to three reference letters. While the Petitioner does not indicate why his employment 
with this office should be considered to be membership in an association, and has not established that 
this evidence may be considered as comparable to that type of evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), 
we consider this evidence below. 
The first letter is froml lone of the Petitioner's collea~ues who served in the same position. 
Regarding the Petitioner's selection for this positionJ ~tates that "Based on his outstanding 
results in Litigation he was appointed to represent thel I Government of India 
in the period from April 2012 to February 2016." Although this statement 1s included in the letter 
after a table listing several cases which he indicates that the Petitioner litigated, the citations to these 
cases indicate that they were decided after the Petitioner's selection as senior standing counsel in 2012. 
I I does not farther elaborate on any outstanding achievements by the Petitioner prior to his 
selection. He also indicates that this involved a "rigorous selection procedure where more than 100 
lawyers applied for the coveted right to represent the Government of India," which included a panel 
consisting of five senior tax officials. However, I I does not indicate whether this panel 
required outstanding achievements of the applicants when making their selection decisions, as opposed 
to looking for a certain set of skills and experience in tax litigation. 
Another reference letter was submitted b '------,--.,--....,....,___,,,--=-....,....,-----,--....,,..,,...,.....,,.....--,........,.--,-- ...... for the0 I I states that he became acquainted with the Petitioner in 2015, and that he was 
appointed to his position as a senior standing counsel "based on his excellent results in Tax Law and 
Corporate Law." He then provides a table of cases in which the Petitioner participated during this 
period, but provides no further information regarding his selection. 
Finally, the third letter referenced by the Petitioner in relation to his employment with thel7is 
written by I ,I another colleague who served in the same position. Although~ 
indicates that the Petitioner was "an asset" to the department and "successfully argued a large number 
of cases," he does not discuss any selection requirements for this entity or discuss specific outstanding 
achievements which might have led to the Petitioner's selection. 
5 We note that the letter writers refer to this entity as the ... I _______ ~!not the Revenue Department as the 
Petitioner refers to it in his correspondence. 
3 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner refers to two types of evidence in his appeal brief which he asserts support his meeting 
the requirements of this criterion. He first notes that in his senior counsel position with thee=] he 
performed as lead counsel for more than 100 cases, and that the opinions in these cases were reported 
onl I which is an online legal database. He farther states that in three examples of these 
decisions included in the record, his name is mentioned as the counsel for the government and his 
legal argument presented. However, these court decisions are not about him, they are about the legal 
issue before the court. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted several articles about these and other cases on which he served as 
lead counsel which were~ in reoorts ard on the websites of multinational consulting firms 
includin~ JI __J and I While these articles extensively cover the opinions in 
these cases and provide analysis of the legal issues surrounding them, none of the articles mention the 
Petitioner or focus on his contribution to these cases, and thus are not about him and his work. 
In addition, we note that the Petitioner also included evidence of media coverage of another case in 
which he was rominently involved, which the Petitioner describes as involving the issue of '1 I 
' This evidence includes screenshots from a video on the Y ouTube channel for -------.----' ~--~' which show the Petitioner as one of four individuals taking part in a discussion on the topic, 
as well as an article from the website of The Times of India which discusses the case and names the 
Petitioner as one of two attorneys representing the plaintiff Although these materials mention the 
Petitioner, and he presumably provides his opinion about the case in the video, this evidence is also 
not about him but about the particular legal issue being discussed. 6 Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his decision, the Director states that he recognizes that the Petitioner judged the work of junior 
attorneys while employed as senior standing counsel for thC7 However, we note that in his RFE 
responses regarding this criterion, the Petitioner points to the seven reference letters in the record as 
supporting evidence under this criterion. While several of these letters confirm his employment with th~ in this role, none of the writers mention that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
in these four years, either individually or on a panel similar to the one that selected him for this 
employment. Similarly, the Petitioner's assertions regarding his supervision of associate attorneys 
6 We note that transcripts of the video were not provided. 
4 
employed by his law firm, made in his responses to the Director's RFEs but lacking supporting 
documentation, are insufficient to establish that he judged the work of others in this capacity. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
In his RFE responses and on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that five particular cases in which he argued 
on behalf of the government of India were "high profile" and "established new law in India." The 
record includes copies of these decisions, which confirm that he served as counsel in these cases. In 
addition, the record also includes the previously mentioned copies of reports from international tax 
consulting firms discussing these cases and the impact of their holdings on tax law and businesses. 
For example, regarding L...-----.,----1--------------------------' m 
which the Petitioner ar ued for the as senior standing counsel, the Petitioner submitted a copies 
of reports from~--r-----' and.__ _ __. which describe the facts and ruling of the case. Another 
matter before the igh Court in which the Petitioner argued for theD is I . ci 
~===:;----------------....,,... ____ ____,.,which is accompanied by an 
.__ __ ~I "Tax Alert" discussing the issues involved at length. 
The record also includes the referenfe letters mentioned above, some of which attest to thelimprt of 
these decisions on Indian tax law. I states in his letter that while employed by "the 
cases argued by him have led to increasing the jurisprudence of law and particularly banking and tax ~' I !whose letter includes very similar structure, sentences and passages to that ofD 
L__J and others, indicates that the Petitioner's cases "have been reported in leading tax journals have 
gained substantial precedent value and also assisted in advancement of tax law on both domestic and 
international tax law front." Regarding the precedential value of these decisions, the Petitioner also 
submitted what is described as "a list of over 100 cases, which refer to or quote several of the 
Petitioner's leading cases." However, a review of this evidence shows that the Petitioner conducted a 
name search on thel I database, and that these results simply show cases where he appeared 
as counsel, and thus do not support the assertion that they impacted decisions in future tax proceedings. 
More importantly, the evidence does not establish that in his role in defending the government's 
position in these tax matters, the Petitioner made original contributions to the field of international tax 
law. While the rulings of the court in these decisions had an impact on the parties involved, as well 
as other companies facing similar tax issues in doing business in India, the evidence does not 
demonstrate the originality of the Petitioner's work in successfully arguing on behalf of an already 
established legal position. Accordingly, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
5 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he authored two scholarly articles, one regarding,._! ____ _. 
taxation in India and another aboutl !transactions, both of which were published on his law 
firm's website. As noted in the Director's decision, however, the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
to establish that his law firm's website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other 
major medium. While the Petitioner refers to his RFE responses, he does not specifically discuss this 
issue in either of those responses or on appeal. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he played either a leading or a critical 
role for a qualifying organization or establishment. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
the he is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is, in 
fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that he has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of his role, but rather his performance in it that determines whether the role is critical. 7 
With respect to the Petitioner's role as senior standing counsel for theO we acknowledge that the 
evidence demonstrates that the department enjoys a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner referred 
in his RFE responses to the reference letters submitted by his former colleagues within the department, 
as well as summaries of five cases in which he participated as counsel, and reports made concerning 
those cases. These reference letters, as described above in our analysis of the Petitioner's contributions 
to the field, do not suggest that the Petitioner acted as a leader while employed by theO and the 
record does not include evidence to establish his standing within the department's leadership structure. 
In addition, while the evidence indicates that some of the cas
1es ar,ued by the Petitioner on behalf of 
the department led to notable or precedential decisions in the High Court, the Petitioner has not 
established that his contributions on these and other tax law cases were of significant importance to 
the department's activities, and how they affected its activities. 
In addition, we agree with the Director that there is insufficient evidence in the record about the 
Petitioner's law firm to establish his role in it or its distinguished reputation. For the reasons stated 
above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7906341 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an embedded software engineer working in the area of industrial automation and 
control, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of at least three of the criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is current! em lo ed as a senior ro · ect en ineer for~---------- a 
manufacturer of.__ __________ ..-------.---' hardware and software. He earned a 
master's degree in electrical engineering from~--~State University in 2007. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others in his 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets three additional evidentiary criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer for the I I I Symposium in 2017, reviewing several papers that were submitted to t._h_e_c_o_n_£_e-re_n_c_e __ _. 
We therefore agree with the Director that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director found that while the evidence establishes that the Petitioner authored at least three 
scholarly articles, none were shown to have been published in a qualifying medium. However, in 
responding to the Director's request for evide1ce (IIFE), the Petitioner submitted evidence that his 
poster was published in the proceedings of the' World Congress on Alternatives & Animal Use 
in the Life Sciences." Upon review, we disagree with the Director and find that this evidence 
demonstrates that this scholarly article was published in a professional medium, thus satisfying the 
plain language of this criterion. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate both that he played 
a leading or critical role, and that the organization or establishment for which that role was played is 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that 
the Petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
role is or was, in fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather the alien's performance in the 
role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 
In his decision regarding this criterion, the Director acknowledged the reference letters from the 
Petitioner's employer, as well as evidence that he is listed as an inventor on multiple patent 
applications, but found that this evidence did not establish that his role was leading or critical for the 
employer as a whole. On appeal, the Petitioner specifically refers to a letter from his employer's vice 
president as acknowledging his contributions and leading role to the company. That letter, submitted 
in response to the Director's RFE, acknowledges that the task of writing a reference letter was 
delegated to the Petitioner's supervisor, and does not itself expand upon his leading or critical role. 
The letter referenced in the vice president's letter was written by I I Engineering 
Manager atD I I writes that the Petitioner and his team "have spent the last five years 
developing a robust, high performance, and secure platform," and that "products driven by this 
platform were covered in 15 trade shows, 3 magazines, and 1000 customer evaluations." He also notes 
that the Petitioner then "led a second IO platform development effort" which received "a strngl 
positive response from the I l community around the world" in 2018. Further, I !mentions that the company's "next generation platforms have been widely promoted product 
lines." 
Other reference letters in the record farther explain the Petitioner's wo~k onlthese products.1 For 
example,.__ ________ ~ a retired senior principal engineer fo describes innovative 
features of the protocols developed by the Petitioner, noting that they are protected under a U.S. patent 
and pending Chinese and European patents. He also describes the Petitioner's leadership in the 
development of a '.__ __________ __." noting that the end result was "a key contributor to 
time to market and risk strategies in new product development." 
The record also includes photographs of an 'I I A ward" plaque ~ the Petitioner in 2015 
for "contributions to the I J Protocol forl__Jbackplane," which is 
referred to inl k letter. In addition, copies of patent applications listing the Petitioner as 
an inventor were submitted, as well as two letters notifying him of modest cash awards related to his 
work on these patents. 
1 We have reviewed all of the submitted reference letters in their entirety, including those not specifically mentioned in 
this decision. 
3 
While this evidence establishes that the Petitioner led a team of unspecified size and composition at D, and that D has a distinguished reputation within thd I industry, it does not 
show that he acted as a leader for the overall organization, which the evidence indicates includes more 
than 22,000 employees. In addition, although he received recognition byD for his work and was 
important to the development of the I~atform products, the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner's contribution was critical to LJs overall success or of significant importance to its overall 
activities. Other than confirming the fact that he received the I I Award, the evidence does 
not provide additional information about it such as the number of such awards granted by D the 
scope of the award, or other contextual information to demonstrate the extent of this recognition within 
the company. Also, we note that the promotional information fromD shows that its products 
encompass multiple categories of software, hardware and devices, indicating that the Petitioner's work 
impacted a portion of those products. Furtherj !Global Product Manager for this product 
line, repeats much of the same language included in I Is letter regarding promotional 
activities surrounding its launch, but the record does not include evidence to put these activities into 
context or otherwise support the overall criticality of the products to~s activities. We therefore 
agree with the Director that this criterion has not been met. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 2 Although the Petitioner does not specifically assert 
that he meets this criterion on appeal, we note that the Director's decision did not address the 
Petitioner's claim to have a high salary in his RFE response. We will therefore consider the evidence 
relating to this criterion here. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout, dated April 16, 2019, from what appears to be a third-party payroll 
website that shows a summary of his employer's "total annual investment." This includes a line item 
labelled "compensation," which includes a figure of $122,864, as well as a total compensation, 
including "health & welfare" and "retirement," of $143,737. However, the printout also includes a 
disclaimer stating that the third party "does not give any warranty or other assurance as to the content 
of the material appearing on the site, its accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or fitness for any 
particular purpose." 
The Petitioner then compares this total compensation figure to the U.S. Department of Labor data for 
Electrical Engineers in thel I Ohio area at the Level 4, or folly competent, wage, stating that 
it exceeds that wage by 150%. We first note that the Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) data 
obtained from the FLCDatacenter.com website, from which the Petitioner obtained this data, does not 
include bonuses or benefits. 3 Therefore, the appropriate figure for means of comparison to this wage 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. at 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high. 
3 See the OES FAQ page at https://www.bls.gov/oes/oes _ ques.htm, accessed on March 18, 2020. 
4 
is the "compensation" figure of $122,864. Second, the Petitioner describes his position on Form I-
140 as "embedded software engineer," which is consistent with the description of his work elsewhere 
in the record. While the relevant wage in 2019 for electrical engineers was $99,570, the wage for 
software developers, systems software (SOC code 15-1133) was $105,248.4 Although the evidence 
indicates that the Petitioner's salary is higher than both of these median wages, it does not sufficiently 
establish that it is high, as opposed to just above average, in comparison to others in the field. 
Accordingly, this criterion has not been met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 Obtained from www.flcdatacenter.com, accessed on March 18, 2020. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15279075 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cancer researcher , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The Director 
also concluded that, because the Petitioner had not satisfied the necessary criteria, the Petitioner had 
not established that his entry would prospectively benefit prospectively the United States. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 l&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate at University in 2011, and underwent postdoctoral training 
at th ..=-,----.----'University. At the time he filed the petition in 
2018, the Petitioner was a research fellow a In A ril 2019, his fellowship ended but he continued 
to work ate=] as a contractor, employed b 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director initially approved the petition, but then determined that the approval was in error. In a 
notice of intent to revoke and again in the final revocation notice, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the criterion numbered (v). 
1 Following the approval of this petition and the issuance of the notice of intent to revoke its approval, the Petitioner filed 
another immigrant petition on his own behalf, seeking to classify himself as a member of the professions holding an 
advanced degree, with a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement. The November 2020 approval of that petition 
remains in effect. 
2 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two of the 
regulatory criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criterion below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director relied on an incomplete review of the evidence. In 
particular, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not fully consider letters in the record, and did not 
give sufficient weight to evidence concerning the Petitioner's published work. 
The Petitioner states that "he has regularly published in high-ranking, high-impact journals, 
demonstrating the significance that others in the field have assigned to his work." The publication of the 
Petitioner's articles in reputable journals shows that his work meets the publishers' standards of quality, 
but ultimately those articles must stand on their own merits, rather than by association with particular 
journals or publishers. 
Heavy citation of the Petitioner's published work, relative to others in the field, can help to establish the 
significance of his published work. 2 The Petitioner has submitted citation data at various points in the 
proceeding. Because the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), we will limit discussion to the citation data submitted with the initial filing in November 
2018, specifically a table from Clarivate Analytics. 
The submitted table indicates that citations to four of the Petitioner's articles ranked between the top 10% 
and the top 1 % for their respective years of publication, relative to articles published in the fields of 
"Biology & Biochemistry." Of the Petitioner's five other articles, three ranked between 50% and 20%, 
and one between 20% and 10%. The remaining article was published so near to the table's compilation 
that meaningful data was not yet available; a single citation clears the thresholds for 50%, 20%, and 10%. 
The citation data indicates that some of the Petitioner's published work has attracted attention within the 
field, but not at a level that demonstrates major significance in the field. This issue is particularly evident 
when considering review articles in the record. The Petitioner contends that the citation of his work in 
review articles is evidence of their significance, because review articles "are expressly designed to 
highlight the most important advances in a given area of research." The two submitted review articles do 
not warrant such conclusions about the Petitioner's work. 
One review article contains two citations to the Petitioner's article about "a novel prognostic biomarker." 
One citation identifies the Petitioner's article among examples of"[r]ecent work ... [that] should also be 
encouraged." This reference, while positive, does not highlight the Petitioner's work as being of 
particular significance. The other citation indicates that the Petitioner's "observation needs to be 
confirmed in inde endent validation studies " before oin on to cite an unrelated study with regard to 
2 6 USC1S Policy Manual Part E, retired Adjudicator's Field Manual Chapter 22.2(i)(l)(A), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanuaL 
3 
The other review article includes multiple citations to the Petitioner's work, but several of these citations 
appear to highlight shortcomings rather than single out the Petitioner's research as especially influential 
or significant. Citations to the Petitioner's article appear after the following sentences: 
Accuracy is highly dependent on appropriate data normalization. Unfortunately, no 
definitive housekeeping miRNAs have been established. Small nucleolar RNAs ... , used 
as reference genes in intracellular miRNA-based studies, are not applicable to 
normalization of circulating miRNAs due to their degradation in biofluids which produces 
low or unstable values. 
Current approaches are limited by lack of concordance, data irreproducibility, and 
contradictory results of individual studies. In particular, the most problematic issues 
reflect the scientific limitations of the detection strategies and the paucity of samples in 
validation sets that have not been adequately justified by power analysis. 
The review article's conclusions read: I 
~---~I' Addressing ongoing controversies is an important part of the scientific process, but these 
comments do not indicate that the Petitioner's contributions in this area have been of major significance 
in the field. 
In an effort to provide further perspective into the significance of his work, the Petitioner submits letters 
from researchers who have cited his published work. These individuals explain how the Petitioner's 
publications relate to their own work. Although these individuals describe the Petitioner's research in 
technical detail, they dt not exolaiu bow tbj Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field. For 
example, a professor at~------~Universityl ~ Germany, states: 
[The Petitioner] evaluated,__ ______ _. that had previously been com iled from 
clinical trials. B doing so, he found that the most ideal candidates fo,...._.r _____ -----1 
treatment are lung cancer patients with.__ _____ __. 
In making these findings, [the Petitioner] noted that the 
._e_f-Ie-c-ts_o_f_s_u-ch-t-re_a_tm_e_nt-ar_e____.not worthwhile for patients with I I 
I I levels and that it is more appropriate to treat these patients via alternative 
therapies. As such, [the Petitioner] successfully identified thel I as a I I lung cancer. 
The quoted passage provides details about one of the Petitioner's research projects, and indicates that the 
project is relevant to cancer treatment, but does not specify how, or how much, the findings have had an 
impact on that treatment. For example, the Petitioner does not show the extent to which the findings have 
changed cancer treatment protocols or affected survival rates. Furthermore, the journal article containing 
those findings has 13 authors; the Petitioner's shared credit sheds little light on his specific contributions 
to the study. 
4 
Given the deficiencies in the Petitioner's evidence, we conclude that the petition was approved in error, 
and we agree with the Director's decision to revoke that approval. Detailed discussion of the remaining 
issue, concerning the Petitioner's prospective benefit to the United States, cannot change the outcome 
of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has worked at some prestigious 
institutions, but in short-term, low-level, or training capacities. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The 
revocation of the previously approved petition is affirmed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12636294 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a radiology practice, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t1oner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a radiology clinic affiliated with the Universi';l.b==,,--------~-----,-J 
The Beneficiary earned a Ph.D. degree in Biochemist from Universi in 2006, and then held 
postdoctoral positions at I I; the University L------r----,.. ___ _J and the University of I I The Beneficiary then earned an M.D. degree from,_______,University in 2014, and served a 
residency in radiology from 2014 to 2019. From 2019 to 2020, in H-lB nonimmigrant status, the 
Beneficiary undertook a fellowship ib I radiology with I J The Petitioner 
seeks to employ the Beneficiary as an radiologist, and states that the "position ... combines clinical 
treatment with research." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence met only one criterion, numbered (vi), relating 
to authorship of scholarly articles. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that its evidence meets all three 
claimed criteria. 
As discussed below, upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the record establishes 
the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, but does not satisfy the required three criteria. 
1 We note that only one of the Beneficiaiy's articles relates to his current field of radiology. This issue would have merited 
deeper discussion during the final merits determination, had the record warranted proceeding to that stage. 
2 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
Chapter 22.2 of the Adjudicator's Field Manual reads, in pertinent part: 
Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the alien's membership in the 
associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based: 
• Solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field; 
• On the payment of a fee or by subscribing to an association's publications; or 
• On a requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment in certain 
occupations, such as union membership or guild affiliation for actors. 2 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that any organization that requires payment of a membership 
fee "do[ es] not meet the elements of this criterion." This conclusion derives from an incomplete reading 
of the Manual. Organizations for which the only membership requirement is payment of a fee do not 
qualify, but we must consider each membership based on all the membership requirements. 
That being said, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary holds any qualifying memberships, 
as we explain below. 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed only one of the Beneficiary's memberships under this criterion, 
~cally his status as a Fellow ofth~ I College of Physicians and Surgeons I ~­
L___J documentation in the record states: I I College certification attests to the fact that the 
Certificant has met the highestD Coll,ge strdards of assessment for the Certificant's specialty or 
subspecialty discipline .... Those who hold College certification are eligible to apply for admission 
to Fellowship." The materials list no particular traits or accomplishments that a certificant must establish 
in order to qualify for fellowship. Once admitted to fellowship, fellows must participate in the 
Maintenance of Certification program, which is "designed to ensure the highest standards in specialty 
medicine." General references to meeting "the highest standards" do not establish that thd I requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, and the submitted materials do not show that applicants' 
achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts as part of the application process. 
The submitted materials indicate that thel I judges candidates for certification by their credentials, 
rather than their achievements, and there is no indication that fellowship requires a higher level of 
achievement, rather than a commitment to pursue continuing education in a particular specialty. 
Fallowing a request for evidence, the Petitioner documented the Beneficiary's membership in three other 
associations: the Association of University Radiologists (AUR); the Radiological Society of North 
America (RSNA); and the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR). The Petitioner also 
asserted that the Beneficiary is a member of the Society of Skeletal Radiology (SSR), but did not submit 
evidence to support that claim. 
2 6 USCIS Policy Manual Part E, retired Adjudicator's Field Manual Chapter 22.2(i)(l )(A), https://www.uscis.gov/ 
policymanual. 
3 
We note that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to show when the Beneficiary joined the AUR, the 
RSNA, and the AACR. This omission is significant because the Petitioner did not mention any of these 
memberships in the initial filing, and the Petitioner must establish the Beneficiary's eligibility as of the 
petition's filing date. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). If the Beneficiary joined the associations after the filing 
date, then those memberships cannot establish eligibility regardless of their membership requirements.3 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that any of the Beneficiary's memberships meet the regulatory 
requirements. The various associations each have several different membership levels, and the submitted 
evidence ( screen captures of the Beneficiary's member profiles) does not show which level of 
membership the Beneficiary holds in any of the associations. 
According to AUR' s bylaws, "[ a ]11 radiology faculty of an accredited medical school or of an institution 
with an ACGME-accredited radiology residency or fellowship program ... will be eligible for full 
membership." Associate membership is open even to non-physicians, such as "computer support 
personnel, and radiology nurses and technologists" who do not typically hold M.D. degrees. 
To become an active member of the RSNA, a radiologist must hold a recognized medical degree and 
board certification, and "reside in and practice in a North American country." There are no other listed 
requirements. Other RSNA membership categories have even lower membership requirements, open to 
medical students and to non-physicians such as nurses. Materials from the SSR's website show similar 
membership requirements, indicating that each candidate for full membership must be board certified in 
radiology and "devote at least 50% of his/her time to ... professional practice." 
The AACR's constitution establishes "seven classes of members," with student membership being 
available even to high school students. The submitted documentation indicates that"[ a ]ctive membership 
shall be open to qualified scientists of any nation who have [produced] original, peer-reviewed 
publications relevant to cancer and biomedical research." Publication of research is not inherently an 
outstanding achievement. Another membership class, honorary membership, is limited "to distinguished 
individuals who have made extraordinary contributions to the advancement of cancer research," but the 
Petitioner does not claim, or establish, that the Beneficiary is an honorary member of the AACR. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that the AACR is an association in the field of radiology. The 
Beneficiary's eligibility for membership derives from his participation in cancer-related biomedical 
research before he attended medical school. 
The Petitioner has not established that any of the Beneficiary's memberships reqmre outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy the above criterion, and the Petitioner has claimed only two 
other criteria. As a result, detailed discussion of the remaining criterion -8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
3 See Matter of lzummi, 22 l&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998) (a petitioner may not make material changes to a petition 
that has already been filed to make a deficient petition conform to requirements); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971) (a beneficiary must be eligible at the time of filing, rather than relying on qualifying 
factors that emerged after the filing date). 
4 
regarding original contributions of major significance in the field -cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 
Although we will not discuss the Beneficiary's contributions in detail, we observe that, of the four specific 
research contributions that the Petitioner calls the Beneficiary's most notable, three relate to genetic 
disorders rather than radiology. This is an important consideration because the Petitioner specifically, 
and repeatedly, identifies the Beneficiary's field as radiology, specifically in a clinical context relating to 
the practice of medicine. The Petitioner has not explained how genetic research, undertaken before the 
Beneficiary was a credentialed radiologist, amounts to contributions in the field of radiology. The 
Petitioner has neither established that, nor explained how, the Beneficiary would pursue genetic research 
at a radiology clinic. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act requires the Petitioner to establish that the 
Beneficiary will continue to work in the area of claimed extraordinary ability, and section 
203 (b )(1 )(A )(iii) of the Act requires substantial prospective (i.e., future) benefit to the United States. Past 
work in an area of research that the Beneficiary no longer pursues does not satisfy either of these statutory 
requirements, and the Petitioner has not established its relevance to the specific claim that the Beneficiary 
"possesses extraordinary ability in the field of Radiology." 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown recognition of the Beneficiary's work indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim, and which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not othe1wise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Much of the evidence ofrecord predates the Beneficiary's medical 
training, and is of uncertain relevance to the Beneficiary's intended employment as a physician, 
specializing in MSK radiology. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13668297 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architect, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
From 2002 to 2012, the Petitioner held various,-,:p....:o:.:..s1:.:..·t1:..:·o.;::n:.:..s..:..:a.;_t t:.:..h:..:e-===;--------------~ 
Institute of Architectural Design and Research! I, eventually holding the title of dean. As 
dean, the Petitioner was "the head of the major project[s]" and "also responsible for the management of 
the design office." Since 2013, the Petitioner has been the majority shareholder of I I 
.__ __________ _.I and chaired its board of directors. The Petitioner seeks employment as the 
director and chief architect of._______,,.------.----....,...a real estate development company. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the criterion numbered (vi). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets five of the other previously claimed criteria, but does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding criterion (ii), and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned.2 
1 The Petitioner previously filed Form 1-526, Immigrant Petition by Alien Entrepreneur, approved in December 2013. Her 
associated Fmm T-829, Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status, remains pending. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner implies, but does not directly claim, that she satisfies a previously unclaimed 
criterion numbered (ix), relating to high salary or other remuneration. We will not consider this 
criterion during these appeal proceedings. The Petitioner did not claim to have satisfied this criterion 
before she filed the appeal. The purpose of an appeal is to identify, specifically, erroneous conclusions 
of law or statements of fact. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Because the Petitioner had not previously 
claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the Director cannot have erred with respect to that criterion. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
numbered (vi). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner has claimed several awards at various times in this proceeding. The Director determined 
that some of the awards were limited to the provincial level, and others went to the Petitioner's employers 
and therefore the Petitioner herself did not receive them. The wording of the regulation requires the 
individual's receipt of the prizes. Involvement in a prize-winning project or endeavor does not suffice if 
the Petitioner herself did not receive the prize. 
On appeal, the Petitioner limits her arguments to two specific awards from China's National Engineering 
Construction Quality Award Examination Committee. In 2012 won theb I I I Silver Award for its design ofth In 2013J I _l andl _ 
l.,:::======;------::-------::----:---::r-------'""s=h=ar"--'e7d "the third prize of I I ~--~I.- .. for [the]~-------~Project." 
The Petitioner asserts that, as team leader, she effectively received the prizes for the two projects identified 
above. I ts chairman of the board asserts that the Petitioner "led the design team[ s] to complete" 
those projects, but does not indicate that the Petitioner received the prizes. 
The record does not contain elaboration from the awarding entity to establish the extent to which the 
awards recognized her work in particular. For instance, the record does not explain which elements of 
thel lproject were considered under~---------~' nor does it 
indicate that the award was specific to "Phase II" of that project. 
The Petitioner has not shown that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
The Petitioner served on technical qualification evaluation committees for municipal authorities in I I The Petitioner states that committee members "first review the applicant's written materials, 
and secondly interview the applicant." The materials submitted by the Petitioner indicate that she was 
involved in judging the qualtfications of candidates for professional certification, rather than judging the 
work of others as the regulation requires. Translated materials from thq I Human Resources and 
Social Security Bureau indicate that municipal authorities grant "professional and technical qualifications 
... through ... initial assessment, review and evaluation, examination, and combination of examination 
and evaluation of graduates of colleges and universities." 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner asserts that she holds the rights to "patented technology" concerning an energy-saving 
system to control heating and air conditioning. The Petitioner does not explain how the system constitutes 
a contribution to the field of architecture, rather than to the related but distinct field of ventilation 
engineering. The Petitioner holds a degree in thermal engineering, but she claims extraordinary ability 
as an architect, not as a thermal engineer. 
We further note that the Petitioner has not directly documented the patent itself: only a "copyright 
registration certificate" for computer software. The terms "patent" and "copyright" are not synonymous 
or interchangeable, but the issuance of either attests only to originality, not to significance. From the 
wording of the translation, we cannot determine whether the Petitioner personally developed the software, 
or holds the rights to software developed by others. 
The Petitioner asserts that her "innovation has been wideJ utilized," and submits copies of three "patent 
use agreements."3 All of the licensees are design firms i I and the agreements limit the use of 
the copyrighted work tq I Province and, in one case,I I Province. The Petitioner does not 
explain how implementation in two Chinese provinces counts as "widespread" in terms of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence o_f the display o_f the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director concluded that this criterion is not applicable to the field of architecture. Because there is 
an esthetic element to architecture, we disagree with the Director's conclusion; the nature of the field does 
not inherently rule out artistic exhibitions or showcases. Nevertheless, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
show that her work was on display in its own right, rather than simply facilitating the display of the works 
3 The translations show the word "patent," but the registration number listed on the agreements corresponds to the copyright 
certificate discussed above. The list of attachments on each agreement refers to a "[c]opy of patent certificate," but the 
attachments themselves are not reproduced in the record. The agreements were not issued by the China National Intellectual 
Property Administration, and therefore they cannot suffice to establish that the Petitioner holds a patent 
4 
it contained. (For example, in an art museum, it is the paintings and sculptures that are on display, not 
the building that contains those works.) 
The Petitioner states that she led a "design team ... [who] cooperated wit to complete 
the design of thel I which was exhibited at the in 2010." The 
Petitioner has not established that the purpose of the~------~ was to display the pavilion 
structures themselves, rather than the exhibits that they housed. Also, the Petitioner has not shown that 
she, rather than the unnamed l I" was primarily responsible for the fundamental design 
and character of the structure. The record does not show that the Petitioner's team conceived of the 
structure, rather than assisted in realizing concepts that originated from thel I 
The Petitioner has not shown that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner states that she satisfies this criterion through serving as the dean o~ Isl I 
Institute and as chairperson oO The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown her role 
to be leading or critical for any organization or establishment as a whole. 
We disagree, in part, with the Director's conclusion. The record consistently indicates that the Petitioner 
held positions of major responsibility at bothl I and D. But the Petitioner must also establish that 
the organizations or establishments have a distinguished reputation. Reputation is a measure of outside 
perception, and therefore the Petitioner cannot establish a company's reputation simply by submitting 
letters from officials of that company. Furthermore, it cannot suffice simply to list projects that a company 
undertook, or honors or awards that the company received as a result of those projects. The Petitioner 
must also provide a basis for comparison to show that company is distinguished in relation to other 
companies in the same industry. 
In this case, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to show thafl I andD have distinguished 
reputations in comparison to other architectural firms in China. Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements of this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion, relating to 
published material about the Petitioner (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)), cannot change the outcome of this 
appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner has established some degree of success and prominence in 
Shenzhen, but her recognition appears to be predominantly local. The submitted evidence does not 
establish recognition of the Petitioner's work indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim, or demonstrating a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2024 In Re: 30002128 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a volleyball coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish, as required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one 
ofthat small percentage at the very top ofhis field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance ofthe evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N 
Dec. 369 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 
1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a professional volleyball player in Brazil for nearly two 
decades until his retirement as an athlete in 2018. At the time of filing in March 2023, he was 
employed as the head soccer coach for a youth volleyball academy in Illinois. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed that he could meet up to six of the ten 
criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had met four of the evidentiary criteria and therefore 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification. Specifically, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner submitted evidence establishing the following criteria: his receipt of lesser 
nationally and internationally recognized prizes for his athletic performance, his membership in 
associations requiring outstanding achievement of their members, published material about him and 
relating to his work as an athlete, and evidence that he had performed in a leading or critical role for 
an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (viii). 
We will not disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements by meeting at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director further determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he could meet 
two additional criteria, including his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and his command of a high salary in relation to others in the field 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix). Nevertheless, because the Director determined that the Petitioner met at least three 
of the regulatory criteria, he proceeded to a final merits determination. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had attained significant successes and achievements as a 
volleyball player resulting in national acclaim in the past as an athlete. The Director concluded, 
however, that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he had sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is among the small percentage of athletes or coaches at the very top of the field. We note 
that the Director misstated that the Petitioner intends to continue his career in the United States as an 
athlete and coach; we recognize that the Petitioner intends to work as a coach to youth athletes at a 
volleyball academy that he founded as a partnership. Upon review, and for the reasons discussed 
below, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this highly restrictive 
classification. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that, on appeal, the Petitioner includes business foundational 
documents and documentation concerning sponsorships for his volleyball academy. These documents 
may be informative to demonstrate his future plans to work as a volleyball coach, his claimed area of 
expertise. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii); 8 CFR 204.5(h)(5). However, these documents post-date the 
filing date of the petition, and thus cannot be considered evidence of his asserted extraordinary ability 
at the time of filing the petition in March 2023. A petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time ofthe filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director mischaracterized evidence, citing several letters 
previously included in the record and explaining why the contents of those letters demonstrate his 
extraordinary ability in the field of professional volleyball. The Petitioner also contends that the 
Director ignored certain evidence, such as the offer of a coaching position from the I 
The Petitioner's appeal brief is supplemented, in part, by new letters from 
the authors of some of the previously submitted letters providing additional details about the 
Petitioner's career. 
The record shows that the Petitioner's career as a professional volleyball player includes high 
placements and wins at dozens ofnational and international tournaments. The Petitioner won a bronze 
medal at the 20031 I Brazil, and placed ninth 
in the 2004 I IGreece. Letters of support from professional players, 
coaches, and organizations of distinguished reputation-including the International Volleyball 
Federation (or FIVB)-all laude the Petitioner's abilities as a player and describe his renown in the 
volleyball community, and the evidence of record demonstrates the significance of a lengthy and 
3 I 
highly-ranked volleyball career in Brazil. As noted by the Director, the evidence of record suggests 
that the Petitioner has not played volleyball as a professional competitor since 2018, nearly five years 
prior to the filing of the petition in March 2023. The issue at hand is not whether the Petitioner 
qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability based on previous acclaim as an athlete; the issue is 
whether the Petitioner, a former athlete, has achieved sustained national or international acclaim in his 
intended career as a coach. 
Among the letters of support are letters from the former volleyball player with whom he competed in 
the Olympics; one letter details techniques that the Petitioner suggested and used during several 
competitions from 1999 to 2011 and the resulting placements of the team. This former teammate 
emphasizes that, in 1999 and 2000, the Petitioner served as both a player and coach for the team. He 
states that on more than one occasion, when they did have a coach, the Petitioner overruled strategies 
that the coach had implemented based on his understanding of the conditions of the game. He also 
states the following: 
With his drive and attitude of a coach, which has always been a feature in him, [the 
Petitioner] has helped not only me, but also other relevant names ofthe sport to develop 
themselves and achieve victory and stardom. 
Letters from other individuals similarly credit the Petitioner for helping them improve their volleyball 
skills and advance their careers. One individual who began playing professionally with the Petitioner 
in 2012 states that in 2013, as a direct result of the Petitioner's teachings, he was "elected the Most 
Improved Player, Rookie of the Year and MVP of the FIVB World Tour." He lists titles and medals 
he received at national and international competitions from 2013 to 2018, as well as his fifth-place 
finish in the 2020 Olympic Garnes. This individual does not disclose whether the Petitioner trained 
with him during this span of time, and the record does not show that the Petitioner played 
professionally with him during this time. Another individual who participated in the Olympics in 2016 
and 2021 credits his award ofthe FIVB Beach Volleyball World Tour's Most Improved Player in 2010 
to his training with the Petitioner beginning in 2009, stating that they played together for three years. 
A letter from a contemporary player affirms that author's previous partnership and receipt of the 
award. The letter also states the following: 
The professional beach volleyball community, especially in Brazil, is in disbelief that 
the immigration authorities in the US did not recognize [the Petitioner] as one of the 
very few players in the world who not only remained at the top as a player himself for 
over a decade, but also shaped and coached younger athletes who would later represent 
Brazil (and win medals) in Olympic games .... 
The author of this letter, however, does not identify specifically how the Petitioner's work affected 
these athletes' performance beyond their early years in the sport. A letter from a former teammate 
credits the Petitioner with training him early in his career, describing the Petitioner as "the brain of the 
team" who instructed him on the specifics of his gameplay in 2008 and 2009; the author, however, 
does not state whether he trained with the Petitioner prior in the intervening years from 2014 to 2017, 
a period during which he states he won several tournaments. The author adds that the Petitioner "not 
only coached me to transition from a sparring partner to a professional player myself: but also did the 
same for several young players ...." While these letters serve to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
4 
influenced fellow athletes at the beginnings of their careers, they do not sufficiently demonstrate that 
the Petitioner is directly responsible for their successes following years of training. The record does 
not include documentation demonstrating, for example, that the Petitioner continued to train these 
athletes in subsequent years leading to their winning national or international awards during those 
years-outcomes that could demonstrate the Petitioner's national or international acclaim as their 
coach. Although the evidence of record supports a determination that the Petitioner was a talented 
player who shared his knowledge and skill with fellow athletes early in their careers, there is 
insufficient objective evidence to establish whether or how these players' achievements contributed 
to the Petitioner's own acclaim and recognition in the field as a coach. 
Further, while the record includes letters from individuals who "consulted" with the Petitioner in 
recent years concerning their professional sports careers, the record does not demonstrate how such 
consultation is evidence ofthe Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim as a coach; while 
these individuals may have been familiar with the Petitioner's successes as an athlete, their knowledge 
of his career does not serve as probative evidence of a career as an acclaimed coach. 
Similarly, evidence of several job offers in recent years to coach volleyball-including from the 
and the does not sufficiently 
demonstrate that the Petitioner achieved or sustained acclaim as a coach. Although these employment 
offers may demonstrate the organizations' confidence in the Petitioner's coaching ability based on his 
previous success as an athlete, the offers themselves do not convey recent national or international 
acclaim as a coach. 
Finally, we recognize that the Petitioner relies, in part, on the fact that he has opened a volleyball 
academy as evidence of his sustained acclaim as a coach. A letter from the co-founder of the academy 
explains that it was the Petitioner's reputation as an athlete that gave him the confidence to enter into 
a business partnership in which the Petitioner would work as the head coach at the academy. The co­
founder's knowledge of the Petitioner's previous athletic success does not support the Petitioner's 
claim of sustained acclaim as a coach. And while the Petitioner's previous successes as an athlete­
including as a former Olympic participant-may potentially positively impact the operation of the 
academy and aspiring athletes in the region who utilize its services-it is not clear how his work at an 
academy for youth developing volleyball skills demonstrates national or international acclaim. The 
Petitioner asserts that news coverage in Brazil of his academy's opening is evidence of his acclaim; 
however, this media coverage discusses the Petitioner in terms of his previous success as an athlete 
"in the early 2000s," rather than as a coach. 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was an acclaimed professional 
volleyball player in Brazil who enjoyed success and acclaim early in his career and who played 
competitively for many years longer than other athletes in his field. However, the record does not 
establish that he received or sustained national or international acclaim as a volleyball coach. He did 
not demonstrate through "extensive documentation" that his work coaching and advising individual 
athletes or other sports professionals has brought him the requisite sustained acclaim at a national or 
international level, such that we could conclude that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) ofthe Act. As such, the record does not indicate he currently has a degree ofrecognition 
for his achievements consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. Moreover, the 
5 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 19, 2024 In Re: 30558370 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a microbiology researcher, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 C.F.R. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
category makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and provide "extensive documentation" of their achievements' recognition in 
their respective fields. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two initial evidentiary requirements -one less than needed to obtain a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he met the requisite third criterion by 
submitting evidence ofhis "original contributions .. . ofmajor significance" to the microbiology field. 
He also asserts that he satisfies the remaining requirements for the requested immigrant visa 
classification. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has submitted evidence of original contributions of major significance to 
the field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements above, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at their field's very top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Indian native and citizen, earned: a bachelor ofscience degree 
in biology in India; a master of science degree in bioinformatics in Scotland; and a doctoral degree in 
microbial ecology in Austria. From 2017 to 2022, he worked as a post-doctoral fellow in the United 
States. He now serves as an assistant professor of agriculture and environment at a U.S. university. 
The Petitioner researches microbes -such as bacteria, fungi, and viruses -and small molecules, or 
metabolites. Using bacteria, he develops pathogen biocontrol agents. He has researched biosynthetic 
pathways and small molecules in both plants and humans. He has studied gut bacteria in cases of 
pediatric obsessive compulsive disorder and analyzed sequencing data to determine microbial markers 
for brain disorders. 
The Petitioner does not assert -nor does the record indicate -his receipt of a major international 
award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) He must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner met two initial evidentiary requirements: 
evidence of his participation as a judge of other's work in the microbiology field; and proof of his 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). 
The Petitioner claims that he also met a requisite third evidentiary criterion by submitting evidence of 
original contributions of major significance to the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Thus, we will 
review the Director's finding regarding that evidentiary requirement. 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
B. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit "[ e ]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). users should first determine whether a noncitizen has made original contributions 
in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If 
so, the Agency should then determine whether any are of "major significance." Id. 
Evidence of significant contributions can include published research that has provoked widespread 
commentary on its importance from others in the field, or documentation that research generated a 
high amount of citations relative to others' work in the field. Id. When determining whether original 
contributions have major significance, detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature 
and significance of the contributions may provide valuable context, especially if accompanied by 
corroborating documentation. Id. 
Contrary to the Director's decision, the Petitioner has demonstrated his submission of evidence of 
contributions of major significance in the microbiology field. At the time of the petition's filing in 
2022, he established his authorship of 16 articles in peer-reviewed, scientific journals in the field and 
a chapter in a book about salivary bioscience. The Director stated that "a particular article cannot be 
considered influential if the evidence does not show that other researchers have relied upon the 
author's findings." But the Petitioner submitted evidence that, since 2017, his articles had generated 
almost 600 citations in his field. 2 
The Director found that: 
while a moderate amount of citations to the beneficiary's work over [the] years 
demonstrates awareness of the work and its value, not every researcher who performs 
moderately valuable research has inherently made an original contribution to the 
academic field as a whole. 
The Petitioner, however, demonstrated that, for their years of publication, 12 of his 16 articles were 
among the top 10% cited in the microbiology field. The Director stated that "the comparative ranking 
to baseline or average citation rates does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions 
in the beneficiary's field." But, under users policy, "documentation that [published research] has 
been highly cited relative to others' work in that field ... may be probative of the significance of the 
person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
Noting the Petitioner's claim of "notable" citations to his work, the Director stated: 
[T]here is no evidence in the record to demonstrate the reason the citations are notable. 
The record contains letters that provide opinions on the beneficiary's work, but they do 
not evaluate and clarify the reason the citations are notable or the impact of the 
"notable" citations on the field as a whole. 
2 The Director mistakenly described the figure as the number of citations to the Petition's work since 2011. 
3 
But the Petitioner submitted detailed letters from seven researchers in the microbiology field, six of 
whom have never worked with him. See, e.g., Goncharov v. Allen, No. 3:21-CV-1372-B, 2022 WL 
17327304, *5 (N.D. Tex. Nov. 29, 2022) (citations omitted) ("Courts have routinely affirmed agency 
decisions that held§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires substantial influence beyond one's employers, clients, or 
customers.") The letters describe three of the Petitioner's contributions in the microbiology field as 
significant. 
First, the letters indicate the Petitioner's discovery of microbes in the human mouth that have led to 
advancements in fighting dental diseases, including tooth decay and severe gum inflammation. He 
found 100 previously unclassified biosynthetic gene clusters and identified about 2,500 biosynthetic 
pathways that exhibit differences between patients with and without dental diseases. His work 
demonstrated the importance of gene clusters in maintaining a proper bacterial equilibrium in the 
mouth to prevent disease. A microbiology professor at a German university wrote that the Petitioner 
"has improved our state of knowledge regarding the oral biome to an extent that few others in the field 
presently match." Further, an assistant professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at a U.S. 
university wrote that the Petitioner's work "is not merely of interest to those of us in the field. His 
data is applicable to severe diseases, facilitating more reliable, early detection, as well as a means of 
countering these conditions." 
Second, the letters indicate the Petitioner's development of an interface allowing researchers to 
analyze mass spectrometry data on a large scale. A U.S. pharmacology and pediatrics professor wrote 
that the Petitioner's "creation ofa database and methodology that compiles information from the wider 
research community and identifies certain compounds related to [ medical] conditions supports a more 
advanced and collaborative effort for fighting diseases." A central metabolism professor at a German 
university wrote that the Petitioner's interface "has provided a means ofbringing information together 
and using it to obtain valuable insight into the human body and human health" and "guiding the 
production of more effective targeted therapies." 
Finally, the letters state the Petitioner's discovery of new surfactin molecules derived from plant 
microbiomes. He found that the genomes of many plant-based bacteria contain numerous gene 
clusters encoding enzymes involved with the production of lipopeptides and polyketides that bacteria 
from other environments lack. His work indicates the importance of the enzymes for plant-microbe 
interactions. He also found one bacterium type with strong anti-fungal properties that can protect 
many crops from harmful microbes and environmental threats. A microbiology professor emeritus at 
a U.S. university wrote that the Petitioner's work "has revealed underlying genetic processes involved 
in [the] protection [ of plants]." The professor emeritus stated: "Given the necessity of agriculture in 
the United States, such expansion of our knowledge in this area is of great benefit to many industries 
and the country as a whole." 
The Director further found that "the letters describe the future impact the [petitioner's] research may 
lead to but fail to describe how his research findings and results have been of major significance in the 
field." But, contrary to the Director's finding, the letters discuss immediate applications of the 
Petitioner's work. For example, the letters indicate that researchers use his mass spectrometry 
interface. A pharmacy professor at a South Korean university wrote that she used the Petitioner's 
mass spectrometry tools to examine medical properties of plants used in traditional East Asian 
medicine. She stated: "[W]e found that there were chemical properties supporting the medicinal use 
4 
of many of the plants investigated." Also, the letters indicate that researchers have built on the 
Petitioner's work to make other major, microbiological discoveries. For example, according to the 
U.S. pharmacology and pediatrics professor, a researcher examined one of the gene clusters that the 
Petitioner discovered in the human mouth and found a compound that suppresses white blood cells 
and may help prevent oral cancers. 
The Director stated: "Letters of recommendation written by experts may be helpful, but the major 
significance of the [petitioner's] work must be demonstrated by preexisting, independent, and 
objective evidence." But neither regulations, case law, nor USCIS policy indicate that evidence in 
existence before a petition's filing carries more weight than new materials, such as expert opinion 
letters. 3 See Rubin v. Miller, 478 Fed. Supp. 3d 499, 504-05 (S.D.N.Y. 2020) (stating that USCIS 
policy and case law focus "on the substance of opinion letters and not when they were written"). In 
another extraordinary ability case, a federal judge rejected USCIS' finding that an original contribution 
"must be demonstrated by preexisting, independent, and corroborating evidence." Chursov v. Miller, 
No. 18 Civ. 2886, 2019 WL 2085199, **3-4 (S.D.N.Y. May 13, 2019) (finding that USCIS reviewed 
letters from professionals in the field "without adequate consideration of the light they shed on the 
significance ofscholarly publications"); see also 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.(2)(B)(l) ("Detailed letters 
from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's contribution may also 
provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance.") 
Thus, we reject the Director's preference for preexisting evidence. 
Contrary to the Director's decision, the Petitioner has submitted evidence of original contributions of 
major significance in the microbiology field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary 
finding. 
C. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner has met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, USCIS must now make 
a final merits determination on his eligibility for this EB-1 classification. The Director did not make 
such a determination. Rather than decide the outcome in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should make a final merits determination regarding the Petitioner's 
qualifications for classification as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability. To establish eligibility, he 
must demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim in his field and that his 
achievements have been recognized, identifying him as one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the field's very top. The Director must consider any potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, even if it 
does not fit one of the initial evidentiary criteria. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(A)(2). The petition's approval or denial depends on the type and quality of the Petitioner's 
evidence not on assumptions about his failure to address other criteria. Id. 
3 A petitioner must establish eligibility "at the time of filing the benefit request." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). But a petitioner 
may submit evidence regarding their eligibility- such as letters or affidavits -that came into existence after the petition's 
filing. The record indicates that three of the Petitioner's seven expert opinion letters bear dates after the petition's filing. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met at least three of the initial evidentiary requirements. USCIS must now make a 
final merits determination regarding his eligibility as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23071891 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 20, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts professional, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
After the date this appeal was filed in January 2022, we received correspondence from the Petitioner 
stating that another Form 1-140, petitioning for immigrant status as an individual with extraordinary 
ability, was approved on his behalf on April 22, 2022. United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services records confirm that this Fo1m 1-140 was approved on behalf of the Petitioner following the 
date of this appeal. The Petitioner stated in his letter to us that it "request[ s] a transfer of the 
Underlying Basis from the initial 1-140 [the current petition] ... to the approved 1-140 Petition for the 
following1 pending Applications to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status."2 As such, given 
the Petitioner's request that the current petition longer form a basis of his adjustment, further pursuit 
of this matter is now moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner 's name and I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, receipt number was 
among those listed in the letter. 
2 We note that as an appellate office, we have no jurisdiction over the "transfer" of Forms I-140 to different Forms I-485, 
nor do we have jurisdiction over the adjustment of status. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 21 , 2024 In Re: 30210432 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had established her extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Remanding a matter is appropriate when the Director does not fully explain the reasons for the denial 
so that the affected party has a fair opportunity to contest the decision and we have an opportunity to 
conduct a meaningful appellate review. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(i),(iii) (providing that the director's 
decision must explain the specific reasons for denial); cf Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected party a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal.) 
In this instance, the Director's denial states at multiple points that the Petitioner both did and did not 
meet three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), does not specify which 
criteria have or have not been met or why, and does not address the provided evidence either in the 
final merits determination or at any other point. Because it is not apparent what grounds the Director 
based the denial upon, the Petitioner has not been afforded a fair opportunity to contest the decision, 
and we cannot conduct a meaningful appellate review. We will therefore remand this matter to the 
Director to review and weigh all of the evidence provided, including the attorney letter provided on 
appeal, and make a new detennination of the Petitioner's eligibility. 
The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination and 
any other issues. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 21 , 2024 In Re: 30371562 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks first-preference immigrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), section 203(b)(l)(a), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l0l(b)(l)(a) . This classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate 
their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner satisfied only 
two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three, and did not 
demonstrate, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The noncitizen must seek to enter the United States to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability and show that their entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material m certain media, and 
commercial successes). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner is a fashion designer who intends to work in the United States at a boutique in 
Texas. Ultimately, the Petitioner endeavors to use eco-friendly suppliers and local domestic vendors 
to create environmentally sustainable clothing. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she is required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two criteria by 
establishing that material had been published about her in major media and that her work had been 
displayed at artistic exhibitions and showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii). The record 
supports this conclusion. The Director further concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish 
that she met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). The Petitioner subsequently filed 
two motions to reopen and reconsider, which the Director dismissed. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director did not explain the reasons that she did not meet certain criteria and that the Director 
did not give due consideration to the evidence of record. The Petitioner contends that she meets the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), and (viii). 
As more fully discussed below, we agree with the Director's decision. The Petitioner has not met her 
burden of proof to establish eligibility under each criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's analysis of her eligibility under this 
criterion. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 
336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
The Director determined, in part, that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because she did not 
establish that the association of which she is a member requires outstanding achievement as an 
essential condition for membership. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the evidence of record 
establishes her eligibility. 
The record includes a document titled "Certificate of an Honorary Professor" from the International 
Environmental Chamber for her project, I I The record also includes letters from an 
individual who identifies himself as the president of the organization. The letter in response to a 
request for evidence explains that the mission of the organization is to find ways to reduce 
environmental pollution in the fields of fashion and art and indicates that the chamber is a union for 
fashion students. The letter also provides the following membership application requirements: 
An Autobiography; 
Background information about the candidate; 
Three passport-style photos; 
At least two recommendation letters from the members of [the organization] who 
have been members in good standing for at least three years. The recommendation 
letters should attest to the candidate's outstanding skills and achievements in his/her 
professional field. 
The letter further describes the three individuals who decide on a candidate's membership as 
"recognized experts in the field of Art & Fashion for their achievements and artistic contributions." 
This letter, however, is not corroborated by independent probative evidence to demonstrate the 
legitimacy of its claims. The Petitioner must support her assertions with relevant, probative, and 
credible evidence. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. Thus, the Petitioner has not met her 
burden to establish that she meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director ignored evidence submitted to demonstrate her 
eligibility under this criterion. She cites evidence related to her collaboration with the director of a 
fashion brand from her country who presented a collection during ______ 2015. A letter 
from the brand's director describes her admiration for the Petitioner's skills and understanding of the 
business aspect ofthe fashion industry. The author further describes the Petitioner's role as the project 
advisor for the collection to be showcased in I I crediting her organizational and creative talents 
for making the showcase a success. The author states, 
Thanks to a successful showcase in I Iwhich our company owns [sic] to [the 
Petitioner], our brand received international recognition by acquiring many 
international clients. Our Instagram following has grown significantly since 2015. 
Having [ the Petitioner] as a Project Advisor for the spring-summer 2016 collection 
undoubtedly played a critical role in expanding our Instagram following and the 
brand's recognition. [The Petitioner's] original designs created for the spring-summer 
2016 collection directly influenced the success of [the] exhibition. 
3 
Impressed by [the Petitioner's] inimitable work, I requested her permission to use her 
unique models for the development of my collections, to which she luckily agreed. 
[The Petitioner's] exclusive patterns have inspired some of the pieces I created for [the 
brand] that have been profitably selling across Kazakhstan and the neighboring 
countries. Therefore, her original contributions were of major significance to [the 
brand] and the fashion industry in Kazakhstan. 
While the evidence ofrecord serves to demonstrate that the Petitioner's collaboration with this fashion 
brand positively impacted its business, the record does not contain evidence showing how her designs 
or creations significantly impacted the field of fashion design. While the director of this brand may 
anecdotally state that the Petitioner's original contributions were of major significance to the fashion 
industry in her native country, the record does not contain probative evidence to support that claim. 
Similarly, a letter from the previous winner of a major fashion design and competition show in the 
United States asserts that the Petitioner's internship at her boutique in I I Texas, positively 
impacted her small business. The letters from the dean and a division chair at a Texas community 
college that the Petitioner attended generally state that she had a positive impact on students by 
motivating them and sharing her skills, and they show appreciation for her involvement in 
competitions at the school. Like the evidence of the Petitioner's collaboration with the fashion brand, 
these letters serve to illustrate the Petitioner's positive impact on a small business and an art program 
at a community college. This evidence does not, however, show how the Petitioner's involvement 
with these entities constitutes contributions of major significance to the field of fashion design. The 
Petitioner has not shown that she meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates the evidence of her positive impacts on the fashion brand, the 
boutique, and the community college. She does not provide-and the record did not previously 
include-supplementary evidence showing how the fashion brand, the boutique, and the community college ar I are organizations or establishments that have distinguished reputations. Whilel 
may be an internationally known annual event, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to 
sufficiently demonstrate that the fashion brand with which she collaborated to showcase at the event 
is a brand of distinguished repute. Participation at the event, alone, does not necessarily confer 
distinction upon the participant. 
Likewise, the fact that the owner of the boutique won a nationally known cable television show 
competition does not confer distinction on her small business. The record shows that her boutique 
appeared in local media, in part, because she was originally from the area where she opened the shop. 
The record does not contain evidence demonstrating that this boutique enjoys special distinction 
beyond its immediate locality, nor does the record contain evidence showing that the community 
college enjoys significant renown among the many other colleges in the region. Although the 
Petitioner may have been a positive presence at these organizations, the record does not demonstrate 
that she performed in critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
4 
reputation. The Petitioner has not met her burden to establish that she meets the requirements of 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and is one of 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 21, 2024 In Re: 30044835 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an associate professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only one (judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv)). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for an additional four, 
discussed below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 1 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 2 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 3 
In res onse to the Director's re uest for evidence (RFE , the Petitioner submitted an article entitled, 
osted on 
technologyreview.com. While the article indicates authorship by 
Ithe Petitioner did not identify the individual(s) in this organization or group who authored the 
material. Moreover, the article is not about the Petitioner. Rather, the article reports on a computer 
model in which the Petitioner is credited as one of the creators. Although the article quotes the 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
2 I 
Petitioner in response to a discussion ofthe computer model, the article does not concern the Petitioner. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Finally, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that technologyreview.com qualifies as a professional or 
major trade publication or other major medium. The Petitioner's RFE response letter, and repeated in 
the brief on appeal, listed "Intended audience -researchers and amateurs interested in emerging 
technology" and "Online circulation." However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence to support 
the assertions about the intended audience, nor did the Petitioner include circulation figures. Counsel's 
unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 
(BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight"). In evaluating whether a publication is a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major medium, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for 
major trade publications and other major media). 4 As such, the Petitioner did not establish the website 
enjoys status as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 5 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 6 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 7 
The Petitioner argues that he "has been invited to write journal articles based on his research and 
workshops," and "[t]hese invitations show that [he] is sought by others within his field of study 
because of his knowledge, skill, and continued contribution to others within the field." Publications 
and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 
F.3d 1115. Evidence that the person's work was fonded, patented, or published, while potentially 
demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is of 
major significance in the field. 8 Here, as discussed further below, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the field views any of his publications or workshops as original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
4 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
5 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 
The Petitioner contends that he "has published over a dozen scientific articles and garnered over 345 
citations of his work." This criterion requires a petitioner to establish original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the petitioner to identify the original contributions and 
explain how or why they are considered to be of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations represents contributions of major 
significance in the field. Moreover, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall 
publication record rather than identifying which research or article the field considers to be majorly 
significant. 
In addition, the Petitioner points to his article, (Computational 
Complexity) and asserts that "the 264 citations it has garnered are very significant relative to other 
papers in the field" and "the top cited article of [J-W-], an expert in quantum information and coauthor 
of this paper, has just under 1200 citations." Again, the comparison of the Petitioner's 345 total 
citations to J-W-'s 1200 total citations does not establish how this co-authored paper constitutes an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. In fact, the comparison of aggregate numbers 
to others in the field is more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrates an individual who is among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. See Kazarian 996 F.3d at 1115. 
However, citatory comparisons of an individual's article to a particular article that the field views as 
being majorly significant may be probative to establish a citation baseline for majorly significant 
articles in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner provided evidence of J-W-'s top five most cited papers reflecting 1,153, 1,109, 
721, 524, and 451 citations, respectively. First, the Petitioner did not provide any evidence showing 
that any of J-W-'s papers or articles are considered to be original contributions of major significance 
in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner did not show the significance or relevance of these citation 
figures, so as to show they are unusually high citations indicating major significance. Even if the 
statistics are relatively high in the field, the 264 citations for the Computational Complexity article are 
substantially less when compared to J-W-'s top five cited papers. 9 
Finally, the Petitioner's brief makes several assertions, such as the comparison of the citations ofother 
articles published in the same edition of Computational Complexity, the impact factor of the journal, 
commentaries from other journals, and the popularity of his Y ouTube channel. However, the 
Petitioner did not submit any documentary evidence to support or corroborate any of these assertions. 
Counsel's unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. at 51. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
9 The Petitioner claims that his "paper is [J-W-'s] tenth highest cited article out of 65 written." Again, the Petitioner only 
submitted evidence of J-W-'s top five cited articles. 
4 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Although the Director concluded the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, we withdraw that 
determination. As indicated above, the record reflects the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in 
professional journals. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The petitioner must establish performance in a leading or critical role for an organization, 
establishment, or division or department of an organization or establishment, and the petitioner must 
demonstrate whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which the 
person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 10 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner claimed: 
I am a leader in my department, especially to other teaching faculty. I am an innovative 
and courageous teacher that is motivated by creating the best learning experiences for 
my students. I am among the highest evaluated by our students every year. I have been 
recognized for this excellence and leadership through awards and promotion. I have 
just been promoted to Teaching Professor, the highest rank in my track. I was also 
awarded this year with the Outstanding Teaching Award from the School of 
Engineering and Technology. I have been nominated for the _______ 
I I Distinguished Teaching Award. 
Although he submitted his teaching promotion summaries from the dean and documentation about the 
teaching awards, the Petitioner did not claim, nor did he provide any evidence, regarding the 
distinguished reputation of his department. 
On appeal, the Petitioner's brief re eats the claims in the RFE response and states that he "has 
performed a 'leading role' at the and has a distinguished reputation." In addition, 
the brief makes several assertions about claiming the source of information was derived from 
Wikipedia. However, the Petitioner did not submit evidence from Wikipedia or any other 
documentary evidence to support or corroborate these assertions about I I Counsel's 
unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. at 51. 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that either his department or enjoys a distinguished 
reputation, we need not reach, and therefore reserve, whether the Petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required 
to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal 
where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 11 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 21, 2024 In Re: 30146700 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a powerlifting athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference (EB-I) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification , as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he is a member of the _______ __,Powerlifting Team and that he 
has earned "more than 20 medals in national and international competitions." The Petitioner indicated 
he was awarded with the title of "Master of Sports I I in 2005 and appointed as the 
head coach ofthel IPowerlifting Team in 2018. The Petitioner further submitted 
a letter from a personal training gym in the United States stating that they were "highly interested to 
accept [the Petitioner] as part of [their] team," emphasizing that they believed he would be a 
"tremendous asset to our fitness studio" and that his contribution to U.S. powerlifting would 
"undoubtedly result in the U.S. winning more medals in major international competitions." The 
Petitioner stated in a personal statement that his "employment as a powerlifting coach in the US will 
have tremendous benefit of national scope" and that it would make "the US a world-class competitor 
in powerlifting, a sport it currently underperforms in." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria relating to awards (i), membership (ii), published material (iii), judging 
(iv), and leading or critical role (viii). He does not assert eligibility under original contributions (v), 
authorship (vi), display of work (vii), high salary (ix), or commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, 
we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter 
ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). While we may not discuss every document in the 
record, we have reviewed and considered each one. Based on our de novo review, we conclude that 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based on being a member of the 
Powerlifting Team, "the highest-level association in the field of Powerlifting in the country." To 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in his field, and 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
At the time offiling, the Petitioner pointed to a letter from the secretary ofthe I I Powerlifting 
Federation, a letter discussing his appointment as the coach of the I Ipower lifting team. 
The Petitioner also emphasized letters from the strength and sports national chairman of the AAU 
(Amateur Athletic Union) discussing his membership in the I I Powerlifting 
Team. The chairman stated that the Petitioner's "initial selection to and continued membership was 
based entirely on his consistent track record of success in regional and international competitions." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director observed that the provided reference letters did not 
indicate that membership on the Powerlifting Team required outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
discipline or field. Further, the Director indicated that the letter appointing him as coach ofthe I I 
powerlifting team was not relevant to demonstrating his athletic achievement on the team or his 
selection based on athletic achievement. The Director requested the Petitioner provide evidence 
reflecting the requirements for membership on the Powerlifting Team, 
including how members of the team are selected. 
In response, the Petitioner pointed to a newly provided letter from the president of the International 
Powerlifting Federation (IPF) asserting this demonstrated that the IPowerlifting 
Team "requires outstanding achievements of their members." The president of the IPF stated that 
I I is very careful with the selection of athletes" as "only a very narrow circle of truly 
outstanding athletes qualifies [sic]." The president of the IPF further explained that lis 
rightly considered as one ofthe strongest countries in power lifting and carefully maintains it reputation 
by selecting only the most brilliant athletes." 
In the denial decision the Director emphasized that the letter from the president of the IPF had little 
probative value because it was not from an individual associated with the 
Powerlifting Team and lacked detail on its membership requirements. The Director further stated that 
the letter did not discuss how members were evaluated for selection to the team and did not 
demonstrate that membership on the team required outstanding achievements as judged and 
recognized by national or international experts. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner again points to discussed letters, but also provides an 
additional expert opinion on a eal from Director and Professor of the Sport 
Management Program at the _____________ opines that the Petitioner has met 
the criteria of membership in an association demanding outstanding achievement because he has been 
representing the I I powerlifting team since 2004 and states that his "initial selection and 
continued tenure in [sic] this revered team were unequivocally influenced by his unwavering and 
impressive history of achievements in both regional and international championships." 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies this criterion based 
on his membership on the _______ Powerlifting Team. As discussed by the Director, 
the Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective evidence to demonstrate the selection process for 
members of the _______ Powerlifting Team as necessary to establish that outstanding 
achievements are required for membership. In fact, the Petitioner has submitted several reference and 
expert letters opining on how membership on the team is reflective of a 
"impressive history of achievements," but submitted little objective evidence to establish how 
members of the team are selected or what achievements are required. For instance, the Director stated 
that the Petitioner did not submit, as requested, documentary evidence to demonstrate the criterion for 
membership on the I I Powerlifting Team and how members of the team are 
selected. It is reasonable to conclude, like manyl !athletic teams, that certain achievements are 
required for membership on the team, such as meeting a certain cutoff time or score or advancing 
through qualification rounds, or in this case, lifting a certain amount of weight in specific exercises. 
The Petitioner only submitted vague assertions as to the requirements for membership, including the 
president of the IPF asserting it "requires outstanding achievements of their members," very careful 
selection of athletes, and stating that only a "very narrow circle" of truly outstanding athletes qualify. 
However, the Petitioner provides little indication or evidence as to what outstanding achievements are 
required, how athletes are selected, and how a "truly outstanding athlete" is determined. Likewise, 
I !discusses the Petitioner's selection to the team as far back as 2004 but offers little 
information on how he was selected. The Petitioner also points to his achievements in regional and 
international championships taking place well after his selection to the team. However, achievements 
occurring after being a member of the team offer little insight into what is required to initially become 
a member, and it is reasonable to conclude, without additional evidence, that not every member has 
won regional and international championships or accomplished outstanding achievements prior to 
being selected to the team. 
In fact, it is notable that the Petitioner has provided support letters from the secretary of the 
Powerlifting Federation, the president of the International Powerlifting Federation (IPF), and a 
professor at the I I but nothing directly from the I I 
Powerlifting Team discussing or documenting the basis upon which its members are selected. In sum, 
the Petitioner has provided little probative objective evidence to establish the basis for the selection 
its members and that outstanding achievements required for membership on the team. The Petitioner 
must resolve inconsistencies and ambiguities in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Further, we 
may, in our discretion, use advisory opinion statements from universities, professional organizations, 
or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. However, where an opinion is not in 
4 
accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give 
less weight to that evidence. Matter ofCaron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 (Comm'r 1988). 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the Petitioner has a 
membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the noncitizen 's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To establish this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that there was published material about him 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author 
of the material. 2 If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether 
professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that an article submitted from a 
publication in was a professional publication, major trade publication, 
or major media publication, as required. The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not 
provide any documentary evidence to support the asserted circulation statistics related to another 
provided article about the Petitioner from the publication! IIn addition, the Director stated that 
the Petitioner did not submit full translations and sufficient supporting documentation to demonstrate 
the probative value of two other asserted articles posted on the internet about the Petitioner, including 
the authors of these online articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erroneously dismissed the submitted published 
material. The Petitioner asserts that he provided sufficient evidence of published articles about him 
in professional publications, or other major media related to his work. For instance, the Petitioner 
emphasizes articles discussing his accomplishments published in the I Inewspaper, 
including one titled from November 2020 and another named I I 
I I from 2016. The Petitioner asserts that he provided full translations of these articles, as 
well as material to support the newspapers "credentials," including evidence indicating that one issue 
of I I including the article from November 2020, had a 
circulation of 9652. The Petitioner asserts that this circulation information reflects thatl I I it is major media inl Ifurther noting that the founder ofthe publication is a branch 
ofthe ovemment. In addition, the Petitioner em hasizes two other online articles about the Petitioner 
from Ma 2023 osted online at 
and another article titled from October 
2016 posted at the "official portal of the The Petitioner further points the expert 
opinion letter submitted on appeal froml Iand indicates that he has demonstrated that the 
Petitioner has published material about him in trade or professional publications, or other major media. 
Although we acknowledge that the articles discussed by the Petitioner on appeal discuss him 
specifically and some of his accomplishments in powerlifting, as both an athlete and coach, he has 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
5 
submitted insufficient evidence to establish that these articles were published in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner only submitted claimed circulation statistics 
or data for one article from ______________ and asserted it had a circulation 
of 9,652. However, the Petitioner did not provide circulation statistics or data to compare the 
circulation ofl Iwith other publications to establish that it represented a major trade 
publication or major media. It is also not sufficiently clear from the submitted translation what the 
asserted number represents, and the Petitioner otherwise submits no information as to the circulation 
ofl _nor how its circulation compares to other publications. Otherwise, the Petitioner 
submits no other objective supporting evidence to substantiate the circulation of any of the other 
submitted articles or publications. In addition, the Petitioner provides no objective supporting 
evidence to corroborate that I I was founded and circulated by a branch of the I I government, and in tum, how this establishes it as a professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
Likewise, the same conclusion can be made in relation to the other two articles emphasized on appeal, 
from May 2023 and I I 
________ from October 2016, both posted at different sites on the internet. The 
Petitioner does not specifically articulate why the online articles should be considered professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, nor does he submit visitation data for these sites or 
comparisons to other websites to establish that they can be considered professional or major trade 
I publications or other major Imedia. Further, the discussed article 
from May 2023 has no listed author, as is required Id. 
Although, we observe that the documentary evidence reflects some published material about the 
Petitioner relating to his work as both an athlete and a coach, and the Petitioner has not clearly 
articulated whether he will compete and/or coach while in the United States. The plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]ublished material about the [noncitizen] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen's] work in 
the field for which classification is sought." Here, the Petitioner does not clearly articulate how the 
articles relate to his proposed work in the United States. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of 
expertise). 
Lastly, the Petitioner's reliance on the expert letter from I Ito demonstrate that there was 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media is not 
convincing. I I only reiterates the assertions of the Petitioner and does not address the 
insufficiencies in the evidence discussed above, for instance, how the circulation data and relevant 
comparisons to other publications and websites support that they were professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. For instance, I I refers to as being 
"under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Sports and Youth Policy of Iand indicates that 
it is "prominent I I newspaper," but does describe how he came to these conclusions or 
offer circulation data or other objective evidence to support his assertions. Again, we may, in our 
discretion, use advisory opinion statements from universities, professional organizations, or other 
sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. However, where an opinion is not in accord with 
other information or is in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight 
to that evidence. Matter ofCaron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. at 791. 
6 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that they 
have not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the 
judging of the work ofothers in the same or allied field of specialization. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, supra. 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner did not assert that he met this criterion. However, in response 
to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that in 2019 he had been invited to the I IPower lifting 
Championships as a judge. In support of this assertion the Petitioner submitted a letter dated in April 
2023 from the secretary general of thel IPowerlifting Federation stating that the Petitioner 
"represented the team I Ias head, coach, team manager and judge." The Petitioner also 
submitted several photographs asserting to support him acting as a judge at thisl !competition. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the plain language of this criterion, 
emphasizing the provided letter from a member of the Powerlifting Federation. The Director 
concluded that this letter only vaguely stated the Petitioner had acted as a "head coach, manager, and 
Judge" during the 20191 IPower lifting Championships, provided sufficient detail about 
this claimed role. The Director indicated that it was not clear how the Petitioner could have acted as 
the coach of thel Iteam, as well as a judge of the competition, and qualify as a "judge" 
under this criterion. In sum, the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted little detail and 
evidence to establish that he had acted as a judge of the work of others. The Director further 
determined that the photographs of the Petitioner at the I !championships did little to substantiate 
his judging of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he was 
invited to act as a judge in the 20191 IPowerlifting Championships, again pointing to the letter 
provided by the secretary general of the I IPowerlifting Federation. In addition, the Petitioner 
points to several support letters provided in response to the RFE, including a letter from the vice president o I of the IPF indicating that he "personally watched [the Petitioner] judging the 20191 
L__JPowerlifting Championships." The Petitioner further emphasizes two letters from two of his 
powerlifting students stating that he was invited as a judge to the championships. 
However, the Petitioner has ignored a material discrepancy addressed on the part of the Director in 
the denial, namely, how he acted as a judge in a competition where his team and students were 
competing, and where he was also their asserted coach. For instance, the Petitioner indicated that one 
of his students won three medals as the I !championships. As aptly noted by the Director, this 
leaves substantial doubt as to whether the Petitioner was acting as a judge of the work of others as 
contemplated by the criteria. Generally, for us to conclude that a petitioner acted as a judge in an 
athletic competition, this is based on him or her awarding points or determining a score based upon an 
athlete's performance. On the other hand, acting as a referee by enforcing competition rules is 
7 
generally not a qualifying activity for purposes of this criterion. In fact, the submitted photographs 
appear to reflect the Petitioner standing nearby competitors and indicating whether they had 
successfully lifted a certain amount of weight in exercises such as the bench presses, squats, and 
deadlifts. This role does not seem consistent with a judge, but more that of a referee, as he was not 
awarding points or determining a score, namely, judging their performance. Despite the Director 
discussing this in the denial, the Petitioner questionably does not address this reasonable conclusion 
on appeal or submit additional evidence to substantiate that he was acting as a judge of the work of 
others, as the plain language of the criterion requires. Further, the Petitioner did not indicate how he 
could be judging the work of his students and team members while also coaching them. Again, the 
Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies and ambiguities in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Without additional probative information or evidence, we cannot determine whether the Petitioner 
judged the work of others in the Petitioner's claimed field of expertise or an allied field. In evaluating 
the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. For these reasons, we conclude the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(i) 
and (viii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these 
remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while the Petitioner has achieved 
some success as a powerlifting athlete and coach, the record does not support a conclusion that he 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
8 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18389347 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physical education specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(lXA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not establish his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one 
of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to detem1ine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. We note that in conducting the final merits determination, the Director focused only on evidence 
related to those criteria which he had found that the Petitioner met. USCIS policy states that all 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability undersection203(b)(l )(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of"sustain" as to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
evidence in the record be considered under the final merits determination, independent of the 
evidentiary criteria analysis performed previously. 3 Accordingly, we have analyzed the record in its 
entirety, which includes other relevant evidence such as the Petitioner's membership in professional 
associations, original contributions of major significance, and high salary. In this matter, we determine 
that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor's degree in physical education from the _______________ · 89, a specialization in exercise physiology from the 
in 1991, and a master's degree in collective health 
from __ in 2003. He has been employed by lsince 1987, most recently as coordinator 
of the exercise physiology laboratory of its pulmonary rehabilitation center since 2005. As indicated 
above, the Director determined that the Petitioner reviewed several papers, authored some scholarly 
material, and serves in a critical position for the Petitioner. However, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner's judging events included serving as an evaluator on the examination board 
for final papers related to physical education atl in November 2014; 
participating gas a member of the examining board for final works in the specialization course in family 
health at __ in May, July, and September 2015; and performing as an evaluator of student 
works in physical education during Physical Education Week at in November 
201 7. However , the Petitioner did not establish that these instances place him among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his review experience compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these judging events, occurring approximately 
within four years from the filing of the petition in September 2018, contribute to a finding that he has 
a career of acclaimed work in the field or are indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his review work. 
Moreover, participating in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an 
individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of 
his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a 
consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served in 
editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired technical committees for 
reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that his peer review experience places him among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual,supra, atF.2 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when 
considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the 
required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 See also Id. (statingthatan individual's participation should be evaluated to detetminewhether it was indicative ofbeing 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
Likewise, authorship and publication do notautomaticallyplace one atthe top of the field. 5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner's article, was published by I 7 in 2003. The Petitioner also emphasizes that he has presented his research at national and 
international conferences. The record shows his three articles, 
I I" 
and 
were presented at 
l the 2016 International Convention on Science, Education, and Medicine in Sport 
(ICSEMIS), and the 40th International Symposium on Sports Sciences (2017), 6 respectively. The 
record does not show that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at the very top of 
the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of four documents 
in a fifteen-year timeframe is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 7 The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" forlesserclassifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that his authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of his 
authorships or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the 
field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written works can be an 
indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his works have been recognized and that 
other researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination 
stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner did not show that 
his written or presented material garnered him any national or international acclaim. See section 
203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not submit corroborating citatory documentation or other 
evidence consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, as mentioned above, the Petitioner 
has been employed by las coordinator of its exercise physiology laboratory since 2005. He 
5 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (stating that publications should be evaluated to determinewhethertheywere 
indicativeofbeingone of that small percentage who has risen to the very topofthe field ofendeavorandenjoyingsustained 
national or international acclaim). 
6 The record shows that theannuallntemational Symposium on Sports Sciences is organized by th 
1 l 
7 The record contains two additional articles andonee-bookindicatingthePetitioner's authorship. The Petitioner 's 2019 
article in the International Journal o Cardiovascular Sciences, 2022 article in thelnternational Journal of Health Science, 
and e-book __________ __,publish ed in 2019 were after the date when the petition was filed in 
September 2018. The Petitioner must establish that a 11 eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, we will 
not consider this evidence. 
4 
also has served as First Secretary of the since 2016. 
The Petitioner provided letters of recommendation from several colleagues that summarized his work 
withl _ and I 8 8 However, the Petitioner did not establish that his role with either 
organization resulted in attention or recognition from the field, reflecting a career of acclaimed work 
in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. See 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. For instanceJ I 
head of the pulmonary rehabilitation center at I highlights the Petitioner's development of a 
year-long, weekly improvement course for municipal physical education teachers, and asserts that the 
Petitioner's contributions have "permanently improved the Pulmonary Rehabilitation Center." In 
addition, 0 Second Secretary of I I confirms the 
Petitioner's role as First Treasurer ofl I since 2016, provides that he is responsible for the 
organization's financial department and "treasury file," and asserts that he has "contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome" of I 
Although the above letters describe the Petitioner's duties and highlight several of his contributions, 
they do not discuss whether any of his professional achievements with those organizations garnered 
him any national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the letters do 
not show the Petitioner's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did 
not establish how his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant 
attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, s letter does 
not explain or justify how the Petitioner's position with I I has resulted in his having, as he 
asserts, "sustained national acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation ." Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
Petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). 
Beyond the three criteria thatthe Petitioner has satisfied, we have considered additional documentation 
in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For 
the reasons discussed below, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to his membership in associations in the field, on appeal the Petitioner highlights his 
memberships in the IParalympic Academy, the board of directors of and the local 
organizing committee of ICSEMIS 2016. The Petitioner has not demonstrated how membership in 
those organizations reflects or results in national or international acclaim or is indicative of his 
placement among the small percentage of scientific researchers who have risen to the top of the field. 
Without this evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that being a member of these associations 
reflects a level of sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification . See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
8 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted , we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
As it relates to his original contributions, the record contains several reference letters that briefly 
describe the Petitioner's past research projects but do not elaborate and explain any attention that he 
received from the field based on his written work and research. 9 For example, in two lettersJ I 
the Petitioner's co-author at and doctoral student discusses the ----------research methods and findin s of their article titled ' _____________________ ," which he characterizes as "an original 
contribution of major significance" in the field. He broadly claims that "other individuals of great 
renown in our areas of expertise have been utilizing the techniques and methodolo ies developed by 
[the Petitioner]." Similarly, in his above refer enced letter, claims that the 
Petitioner's article titled ' "was 
at congresses and "had an incredible impact," and the Petiitioner 's 
master's thesis advisor asserts that the Petitioner's stud titled " 
' had "such great 
impact" that it was presented at "one of the most important" conferences in the field, the 2017 I I conference. 10 Although the letters of I andl I reflect 
the originality of the Petitioner's work and that it has received some attention, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he has garnered recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the letters did not provide specific information, such as identifying the authors, papers, and 
publications that cited to the Petitioner's written or presented research, or the number of citations to 
the Petitioner's published work, and explain how those citations sufficiently demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, ________________ the vice-dean of thel I extension 
program, states that the physical education extension courses taught by the Petitioner in the city of I lwere a significant contribution to the general population "who benefitted from more 
trained and ualified professionals."! I worked with the Petitioner in 
the program, a government program initiated in 2013 to address the shortage of doctors 
in _ by expediting the provision of training and certification to foreign doctors. He provides that 
the Petitioner was a supervisor in the program, monitoring the progress of doctors enrolled in a 
residency program in General Family and Community Medicine atthel !medical school, and 
claims that without the Petitioner's "original contribution of major significance .... the ability to hire 
foreign physicians in I would have suffered a considerable e delay , ." However, these letters do 
not explain how the Petitioner's teaching duties with the_ I extension program or his 
supervisory activities with the I I program support the assertion that he is considered 
________________________________ published in the 
International Journal of Cardiovascular Sciences, "provoked widespread public commentmy." However, this article was 
published after the date when the petition was filed in September 2018. As noted, the Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing th rough 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l ). We, therefore , will not consider this evidence . 
6 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or that he has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim.11 
Finally, although the record reflects the Petitioner's income with I I the record does not 
establish that he commands earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages are tantamount to an 
individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his salary compared to others at 
the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating him 
from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994)(concludingthat 
even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as 
an individual of "extraordinary ability"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks 
omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design"); 
Hamalv. Dep 'tofHomeland Sec. (Hamalll), No.19-cv-2534,2021 WL2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 
8, 2021) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c ]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner 
need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the 
record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 Further althou h the Petitioner hi hlights his purported participation as thecoordinatorforthe 2018 seminar 
the documentation submitted from that seminar reflects that the coordinator was 
and does not indicate the Petitioner's participation. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25234474 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a nail design artist and manicurist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center concluded the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria for the classification, but denied the petition, detennining that she did not 
demonstrate her sustained national or international acclaim and that she was among the small 
percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As discussed, the Director concluded the Petitioner established three of the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), specifically that: 1) there was published material about her in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media related to her work pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 2) she participated as a judge of the work of others in her field as specified in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and 3) she authored scholarly articles in her field as indicated by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has met at least three 
of the initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 
The Director concluded that the record did not demonstrate the Petitioner's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she was among the small percentage at the very top of her field of 
endeavor. For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has met her burden of 
proof to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she is eligible for the benefit sought. 
The Petitioner is a native of Russia asserting that she is an award-winning nail artist and master of the 
manicure and pedicure arts. The Petitioner contends that she has contributed to the industry through 
the introduction of innovative methods and techniques in stamping, airbrushing, and nail treatment. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received international acclaim for her work including 
winning 14 awards at seven international nail and beauty competitions in Russia, Italy, New York, 
Poland, and the Netherlands. The supporting evidence indicates that these awards were given by a 
mix of international industry experts in her field. The evidence further reflects that the Petitioner is a 
member of the International East European Beauty Association (IEEBA) and a reference letter from 
2 
this organization's president acknowledges her contributions to the field as a judge, instructor, and 
coach in the nail art industry. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided several online articles highlighting her as a leading presence in the 
field in her country and documentation reflecting her wide involvement as a representative and judge 
in international nail and beauty competitions, including in New York, Japan, the United States, Qatar, 
Egypt, and Russia. The Petitioner's wide participation as a judge in international nail and beauty 
competitions, along with other representatives from around the world, indicates that she is a leading 
figure in the nail design and manicure industry in her country. 
The Petitioner also submitted numerous reference letters from prominent individuals within the nail 
design industry credibly discussing her contributions and acclaim within the field, advanced and novel 
nail design techniques, creation of innovative nail instruction courses and master classes, advanced 
knowledge of nail disease and treatment, and aesthetically pleasing and visually interesting nail 
designs. The provided support letters indicate that it is more likely than not that the Petitioner has 
wide influence in her country's nail industry and that industry leaders from around the world attest to 
her acclaim in the field. Likewise, the Petitioner submitted documentation reflecting that she 
contributed five scholarly articles to trade articles in the industry. The provided evidence further 
supports a conclusion that the Petitioner has worked in a leading role as a nail design lecturer for the a a specialized nail design center in Russia, and that she has delivered 
lectures, workshops, and seminars, and developed innovative educational materials for these 
programs. 
Based on this evidence of the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition, as well as other 
evidence not discussed above, she has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a nail design artist 
and manicurist and established that she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes 
that the Petitioner possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a concluding that she is one of 
a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has the required sustained 
acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and her 
achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise and that her work will substantially 
benefit the United States prospectively. Therefore, the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25965834 
Motion on Administrative Field Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 22, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a city branding expert, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement , or, in the alternative , evidence that satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Director also determined that the Petitioner had willfully misrepresented 
material facts with respect to her authorship record. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which the Director dismissed as untimely filed. We then 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of the Director's motion decision, concluding that the Director 
appropriately dismissed the motion to reopen as untimely since the Petitioner had not established that 
the delay in filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 1 The matter is now before us on combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss both 
motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) , and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 In Re 21340921 (AAO Sep. 28, 2022) 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
II. ANALYSIS 
We first note that the issue of the Petitioner's eligibility for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability is not before us. The sole issue before us on the combined motions pertains to 
our conclusion that the Director's dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combined motions was 
appropriate. 
The Petitioner argues, as she did on appeal, that the untimely filing of her first motion was both 
reasonable and beyond her control due to confusion about guidance issued by U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) which extended the period for filing of Form I-290B during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Specifically, she references the initial USCIS announcement of March 27, 2020 
which extended the due dates for requests for evidence (RFEs) and notices of intent to deny (NO IDs) 
by 60 days, and a subsequent announcement on March 30, 2020 which expanded this flexibility to 
include Forms I-290B filed within 60 days of the underlying decision. She states that the differing 
language between these two announcements caused confusion which led to human error and the late 
filing of the initial combined motions. The Petitioner further asserts that because USCIS announced 
on December 30, 2021 that the period for filing Form I-290B was temporarily extended to 90 days 
after the date of the underlying decision, this constituted an admission that the original guidance was 
confusing, and thus shows that the delay in her filing was reasonable and beyond her control. 
As we noted in our previous decision in this matter, the announcements which the Petitioner refers to 
on appeal were no longer in effect on the date of the decision, March 2, 2021, having expired in May 
2020. In addition, the change to allow Form I-290B to be filed within 90 days of the underlying 
decision was not announced until more than nine months after the underlying decision, and the 
Petitioner provides no support for her assertion that this was done to address any confusion from the 
preceding announcements. She has therefore not established that her delay in filing the initial 
combined motions was reasonable and beyond her control. 
The Petitioner also repeats her assertion that to deny her an opportunity to rebut the finding of willful 
misrepresentation would be unfair, especially considering the consequences of this finding. However, 
as we stated in our previous decision, she has not shown that her ability to respond to the Director's 
decision by motion was in any way hampered by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the record indicates 
that she had gathered additional evidence for submission well before the filing deadline for motions 
and appeals of May 4, 2021. As the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy, we will dismiss the her motion to reconsider. 
2 
Turning to her motion to reopen, the documents submitted with this motion were also included with 
her appeal, and the Petitioner does not refer to new facts which were not previously considered. As 
she has therefore not met the requirements for a motion to reopen, we will dismiss this motion as well. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was in error based upon the record at the 
time of filing or was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. In addition, she has not 
submitted new facts. We will therefore dismiss her motion to reconsider and her motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6245976 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an attorney, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a Chemistry , Manufacturing, and 
Controls (CMC) regulatory affairs researcher , as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Beneficiary 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not establish her 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at 
the very top of her field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts the claim that the Beneficiary has met the original contribution 
criterion. He further argues that the record establishes her sustained national acclaim and that her 
achievements have been recognized in her field. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must show that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary 
met the evidentiary criteria related to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); judging at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Director farther 
determined that the Beneficiary did not meet the criterion related to original contributions at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The record contains a published article in European Pharmaceutical Review that is about the 
Beneficiary and related to her work. It also includes evidence sufficient to establish that European 
Pharmaceutical Review is a major trade publication. The Petitioner has demonstrated that the 
Beneficiary served as a peer reviewer for articles published in professional journals such as the Journal 
of Probiotics & Health, International Journal of Biology, and Medical Sciences. Finally, the record 
reflects that the Beneficiary has authored scholarly articles published in journals including the Journal 
of Pharmacy Research and the African Journal of Food Science. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Beneficiary meets three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the Beneficiary meets a fourth criterion related to original 
contributions. However, as he has established that she satisfies three other criteria, we need not 
address whether she meets a fourth, but we will consider the evidence submitted as part of the final 
merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability 
in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that the Beneficiary graduated in 2008 and has been active in her field since 
this time. The record reflects that in 2011 the Beneficiary received her masters of science in 
biosciences from the c=Juniversity School of biosciences and technology and received a grant to 
pursue her research during this time from I I The Petitioner indicates that she was 
employed byl I as a research and development scientist and then as a senior scientist in 
international regulatory affairs, from 2011 through 2015. In 2016, she began work as the associate 
director of CMC and regulatory affairs at.__ _______ _. where she was employed when the 
instant petition was filed on her behalf 
As we note above, the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary met the criterion for published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner offers two articles about the Beneficiary and 
her work in clinical research and regulatory affairs published in European Pharmaceutical Review and 
Clinical Trials Arena but establishes that only one of these publications, European Pharmaceutical 
Review, is a major medium. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a single qualifying article in 
a major medium is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this 
highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the commentary for 
the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Even considering the additional 
article, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the publication of two media articles 
about the Beneficiary reflects a level of press coverage represents recognition consistent with being 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ceitain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22. 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Petitioner argues that the frequency with which she has peer reviewed articles and the distinction 
of the scientists whose work she has reviewed are evidence that she is at the top of her field of 
endeavor. An evaluation of the significance of her experience, as evidenced by the frequency of her 
peer reviews, is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22 (finding that a 
review of the significance of the evidence submitted is more appropriate in a final merits determination 
of whether the petitioner has met the requisite extraordinary ability). The record reflects that the 
Beneficiary has reviewed many manuscript and review articles for the International Journal of 
Biology, Medical Science, Journal of Probiotics & Health, Tropical Journal of Applied Natural 
Sciences. As evidence of the distinguished nature of the scientists' whose work she has reviewed, the 
Petitioner references an article she has reviewed titled, 
~----1-"_au_t_h_o_re_d__,by '--------~ and .__ _______ _. and points to media 
coverage of laboratory research." While the media coverage reflects that work carried 
out by .__ _____ _.in the realm of food safety has been recognized, it does not reference the 
specific article reviewed by the Beneficiary, or otherwise acknowledge her as a reviewer of D I l's work. 
Participation in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. Although the record shows that 
the Beneficiary reviewed numerous manuscripts, it does not demonstrate how her reviews differentiate 
her from the field, such as evidence showing how her work compares in quantity and quality to that 
of her peers. Similarly, the evidence in the record does not show that she has received any acclaim or 
recognition for her efforts peer reviewing forl ~ or any other scientist. Without this or 
other evidence differentiating her from those in her field, such as documentation showing that she has 
served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications or other relevant evidence, the 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary's peer review experience places her among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, the record reflects that she published 
five papers in peer-reviewed journals and authored two book chapters, has two articles pending review, 
and has been invited to and delivered oral presentations at conferences. 2 The Petitioner also submits 
documentation establishing the peer review process and publication requirements for the journals in 
which the Beneficiary's articles appear. However, he does not provide evidence differentiating the 
Beneficiary's publication rate from those of others in her field, or otherwise establishing that it is 
reflective of one who is among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary has received national or international acclaim for her publications. 
,'.:....l~s.e.Jllll.J~i...lll.c.Lllili!....il.cr....::J.1!.l..ll..J.J.lJ'JJ:./1a.L!.ll...l-:..tl.a..l.JllJ:u:.J1:...Jf.f:.~u::£1:l,· article titled .__ ____________ _. 
" and 2010 A rican Journal o Food Science article 
" The Petitioner also includes her 2011 International Journal o(Research in Ayurveda & Pharmacy 
~ar!;!;ti~c~le~s _' ==========:=:a;-------------'" and 'L I t====================:;:==.:::::::! and her 2013 Journal of Probiotic Health article .__ ________ .,..... 
4 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary has satisfied, we consider additional documentation in 
the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, 
for the reasons discussed below, these materials contribute to but do not establish an overall finding 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. 
As it relates to her research, the Petitioner submits articles, book chapters, and letters of 
recommendation, among other materials, discussing I I bacteria" named 
.__ ______________ ____,its potential health benefits, which the Beneficiary isolated. 3 
These publications establish that others have referenced the Beneficiar 's research in their own work. 4 
For exam le the Petitioner rovides an article ' 
L---------,r---------------------------- 7' in which the 
authors note, ' isolated from ,-----~'--1.-----------.--------....-------,--------' .__ ____________ ___., was evaluated for ,....._ ___ __,property ... " and cite to the 
Beneficiary's 2010 and 2011 article. An article in the Asian Pacific Journal o_fTropical Biomedicine, 
written by a co-author of the Beneficiary's 2010 and 2011 papers, cites to the Beneficiary's research 
and notes, "[ o ]ur research group has previously isolated and identified"c=] 
However, while these publications discuss the benefits of the isolated bacteria, they do not differentiate 
the Beneficiary or her role in isolating it from that of others in the field. The Beneficiary's research is 
generally one among numerous articles referenced in these articles and books provided in the record. 
In the first article referenced above, the Beneficiary's research papers are cited only once in the body 
of the article, and account for two of 40 papers listed in the references section. In the second paper, 
the Beneficiary's 2010 paper is cited once in the body of the document and is one of 35 papers in the 
list of references. The Petitioner does not provide evidence demonstrating that these rates of citation 
are indicative of a high level of recognition in the field. The record therefore is insufficient to support 
a finding that the Beneficiary's contributions have been recognized by the field in a manner consistent 
with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the letters of recommendation in the record, the authors also discuss the Beneficia 's 
isolation of c=J5 In his letter,.__ _______ ~ staff scientist at.__ ______ ---. ___ ..,. ~ states, "[the Beneficiary's] far-reaching work yielded the discovery of the novel ,.__ _ ____, 
bacteria." He notes that this novel strain was subsequently accepted into the MTCC, and explains 
MTCC's criteria for accepting microbial strains, thus proving "her international acclaim in the field." I l manager of product development forl I notes that the "[s]uperlative 
nature of this isolate gave itself to brng •:ceote1 by the predominant mic-robial repository at 
IMTECH, India." Neither I I or differentiate the acceptance of this microbe by 
MTCC or IMTECH from that of other micro es 1so ated by other researchers, nor does the record 
show how the acceptance ofc=Jdemonstrates that the Beneficiary's discovery is reflective of 
sustained national or international acclaim. Without this evidence, these letters are insufficient to 
3 The record also containsDs genetic sequence, its registration with the Microbial Type Culture Collection (MTCC). 
information about the MTCC. 
4 We have reviewed all of the articles in the record but discuss only a sampling here. 
5 While we discuss only a few letters here, we have reviewed all of the correspondence in the record. 
5 
show that the Beneficiary is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the Beneficiary's development of a newl I the Petitioner indicates that it 
"would be of major significance in rural areas with limited access to refrigeration" and "opens the 
possibility of a I I with an extended shelf life." He does not point to evidence in the 
record demonstrating how the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim from these 
prospective benefits. Accordingly, he has not shown that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim as a result of her development of this ~ 
The Petitioner also points to the number of citations garnered by the Beneficiary's scholarly articles 
as evidence of her achievements and of her "career of acclaimed work in the field." The citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of these articles can also be an indicator to determine the 
impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been 
sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary 
may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that other researchers have been 
influenced by it. At the time of filing, the Petitioner offered evidence that the Beneficiary's most-cited 
articles received 33 and 11 citations, respectively. 6 While these citations, both individually and 
collectively, show that field has noticed her work, the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
differentiating the frequency of citation from that of others in the field or otherwise demonstrating that 
the Beneficiary's citation rate is reflective of a sustained national or international acclaim, or of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. As such, we need not determine whether she is 
corning to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(l)(a)(ii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, he has not demonstrated her sustained national acclaim and 
that her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. The Petitioner 
therefore has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The 
appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 The record contains an undated and untitled printout providing these values. The P.rintout reflects that the remainder of 
her attic le: have received a total of 23 )itations. The record also includes letter froml I, senior editor at the I O , discussing these book chapters and noting that the book "has a global circulation" 
and "is selling very well." However, neither the untitled printout nor this correspondence indicates that the Beneficiary's 
chapters have been cited by others. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19272434 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a I I athlete and coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that his entry into 
the United States would provide a substantial prospective benefit. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in I I events for many years, and has placed in 
competitions at the regional, national, and international level. He has also acted as a trainer, 
primarily for local police departments. He states that he intends to continue to compete in 
sports events in the United States, as well as open a I academy to train others in the sport. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
same five evidentiary criteria he claimed in his original filing and in response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet 
three of the criteria, and therefore does not satisfy the initial evidence requirement for the requested 
classification. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The evidence includes scoring results from several 
websites of th etitions sourced from the 
_________ and the ___________________ These 
show that the Petitioner placed at several tournaments, however several of these documents do not 
show the name, place, or date of the competition. For example, exhibit 27 of the original submission 
consists of pages of charts with results which show that the Petitioner finished third in the I I I master" division, but there is no identification of the competition in which these results were 
earned. Other documents include only partial information, such as the date on which the results were 
achieved. The match results from the W orld I (2011) and W orld (2014) 
2 
are sufficient to show that he placed fourth and third, respectively, in the "standard junior" division at 
those competitions. We note that the record does not include evidence that the Petitioner received a 
prize or award for placing fourth in 2011, but does include a photograph of a trophy for his third place 
finish in 2014. 
Also included in the record is information about the from the organization's website, including 
a list of past continental and world championships, in some of which the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that he participated. This evidence states that competitions such as the world are considered to 
be the top level of those held or sponsored by while continental championships such as the Pan 
American and Latin American I championships in which the Petitioner also placed are at the 
next lower level of competition. As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he has received at least one 
award at the top level of competition in I we conclude that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate satisfaction of this criterion, a noncitizen must show that they are a member of an 
association in their field, that that association requires outstanding achievements as a condition of 
membership, that those achievements are judged by national or international experts in that field. 
The Petitioner bases his claim to meeting this criterion on · · on membership in the I I as well as the 
United Statesl IAssociatio While he asserts that the Director concluded 
that he had not established his membership in this is incorrect, as the decision refers to the 
letter from _________ President of the organization, as providing evidence of his 
membership. We agree that the Petitioner has established that he is a member of and that this 
is an association in his field of I 
Regarding the next element, whether! requires outstanding achievements of its members, the 
Petitioner initially referred to Article 10 of the bylaws, which states the following: 
Art. 10. It is the prerogative of I and, only by express delegation, to certify, when 
necessary, the aptitude of sportsmen in thel I especially those 
considered by specific legislation on and, consequently, declare them 
fit to participate in ______ 
However, article 10 is in Chapter III of the bylaws, which is titled "Definition and Composition of 
Tournaments." This context, and the plain language of article 10, reveal that it refers 
not to membership in the organization, but certification to participate in tournaments. More 
importantly, neither the Petitioner nor the Director make reference to the sections of the bylaws which 
do pertain to membership in the organization. An entire section of the bylaws, "Title III -Members," 
is devoted to this subject, and article 48 in that section indicates that there are several types of 
members, one of which is "athletes." Article 57, which is italicized in the English translation but not 
in the Portuguese original document, states the following: 
3 
The application for membership by athletes directly affiliated with the 
CONFEDERATION must be signed by the applicant and contain a direct statement 
that he or she fulfills the requirements for the issuance of the Certificate of Registration 
with thel and agrees to comply with thel Bylaws and regulations. 
Therefore, per article 57 in thel I bylaws, an athlete need only submit a statement in order to apply 
for membership in the organization. As there is no evidence that this task requires outstanding 
achievement, the Petitioner has not established that outstanding achievement is a requirement for 
membership inl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes two conflicting arguments. First, he states that in order to become a 
member inl l"one must compete for a position on the team and be given the opportunity 
to compete nationally and internationally." This statement appears to be based upon the letter from I in which he states that "I am able to decide if the athlete will be compatible to join the 
confederation, that means that the athlete needs to be constant! competitions, with a 
minimum expertise and awards." However, it is membershi in which the Petitioner claims as 
qualifying, not membership on any particular team. Despite ___ s letter, there is no provision 
in the bylaws concerning membership which requires that athletes compete at the national or 
international level. 
Second, the Petitioner states that to become a member, an athlete must present a list of documents, 
including several statements, proof of address, judicial permit, and identity documents. While this list 
may include documentation not specifically covered in article 57, he makes no reference to evidence 
of the source of this list. More importantly, the Petitioner does not suggest that the production of these 
documents is an outstanding achievement in the field of I 
Turning to his claim as a member of the Petitioner refers to exhibits 48 to 50 of the RFE 
response on appeal. While the RFE exhibits number only 43, the original submission included 
evidence that the organization had certified him as al lfrom October 30, 2017. This 
evidence does not establish that he is a member of I Tn addition, the Petitioner submitted pages 
from the I !website which describe the association and its history, but do not address its 
membership requirements. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion 
through membership in either the orl I 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director noted that the I !website is not considered one of the qualifying types 
of media under this criterion, but did not provide an analysis or reasons for making this conclusion. 
However, we will initially address the first element of this criterion, whether the Petitioner has 
established that any of the material published on that website was about him. This evidence consists 
of three documents, submitted at exhibits 57, 58, and 59 of the original submission. The first article 
is about the 2012 Pan-American I IChampionship, and indicates that several of the 
association's younger athletes, including the Petitioner, achieved titles. It goes on to report the results 
4 
of other matches in the tournament, naming dozens of individuals. While the article gives a few words 
for each competitor
1 ("demonstrating a huge maturing [the Petitioner]"), it is not about any of them 
individually but the members' performance overall. 
The second and third articles posted to the website simply list the Petitioner's name in a group of 
athletes, and provide no comment at all regarding his background or performance as an athlete. As 
such, they are not about him but about the events in which the group of athletes participated. 
Other materials submitted by the Petitioner in support of this criterion include two screenshots from 
separate videos in which the Petitioner is pictured and identified. The first was published on the 
website of a Brazilian television channel called RecordTV, and the second was posted to what appears 
to be a personal Y ouTube channel. Although the Petitioner claims that he was interviewed as a 
expert in the first video which appears to relate to a news story involving! I and the title of the 
second concerns a tournament in I Brazil, neither is accompanied by written transcripts. 
The Petitioner's and his representative's descriptions of the content of these materials is not supported 
by documentary evidence in the record, and we are therefore unable to determine that the material 
published on these media is about the Petitioner. 
As the Petitioner has not shown that any of the published material in the record is about him, he has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
We agree with the Petitioner's statement on appeal that in order to meet this criterion, a noncitizen 
must show that their contributions are both original and of major significance, as shown by impact or 
influence on the field. After review of the evidence submitted in support of his claim to this criterion, 
we conclude that he has not demonstrated his impact or influence upon the field of I 
The Petitioner asserts that he made an original contribution by starting his ownl I club 
and teaml with his father. A letter from his father and 
business registration documents show that he served as this organization's Technical Director or 
Sports Director from its inception in late 2012 until January 2017. His father indicates that in this role 
he "helped organize" events, tournaments, training, and financial and legal administration. He also 
served asl I instructor, training several police agencies as well as athletes, and represented the 
club as an athlete. The Petitioner's role in providing training to law enforcement agencies is 
supported by letters from two of those agencies. 
As stated by the Director in his decision, the evidence does not show that the Petitioner is or was a 
founder of I only that he served as one of its officers and as I I instructor. In 
addition, his father does not state in his letter that he created the I team that represented the 
club, only that he trained athletes and represented the club as an athlete himself. The Petitioner has 
therefore not shown that he made an original contribution to 
Further, even if the Petitioner had been able to establish that he was a founder of I I he has 
not shown that the creation of this organization was of major significance to the overall field of 
5 
While the evidence establishes that I I trained at least two law 
enforcement agencies in Brazil and trained athletes, and thus had some impact on the field in that 
country, the evidence does not show, for instance, that its training methods were adopted by other I I trainers in Brazil or elsewhere, or that the Petitioner otherwise influenced the field as a whole. 
In addition, while the Petitioner may have trained _______ athletes and law enforcement 
officers, the record does not establish that they were unusually successful in their respective roles or 
constituted a significant portion of those active in those roles, or that their collective training somehow 
impacted the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he made contributions as a I athlete, noting that he 
represented Brazil at internationall I competitions. However, he does not explain how winning 
awards at international competitions contributed to the field or influenced or impacted it in a 
significant way. I s letter states that the Petitioner has "been doing a lot of things to help 
our sport to keep growing," but he does not provide details about how or how much the Petitioner has 
helped to grow the sport, and the record lacks evidence to support this statement. 
Based upon the foregoing analysis of the Petitioner's contributions as both an athlete and a trainer, we 
conclude that he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to his leading or critical for organizations having a distinguished 
reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach that additional ground. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
reserve this issue. 1 Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
2 We also reserve the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States would provide a substantial prospective 
benefit. Id. 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25462962 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The self-Petitioner seeks classification as a noncitizen of"extraordinary ability" in the field of improving 
business supply chains with enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . The requested, first­
preference category provides immigrant visas to noncitizens who demonstrate extraordinary ability 
based on "sustained national or international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" showing 
recognition of achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten preliminary , evidentiary standards -one less than the three required for the 
requested classification. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence. He contends that, 
contrary to the Director's finding, he belonged to associations in his field requiring outstanding 
achievements of their members by the petition's filing. He also asserts his demonstration of his 
performance in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit by a preponderance 
of evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Exercising de novo 
appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 357, 357 n.2 (AAO 2015), we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of a third evidentiary standard. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then determine whether an overall record establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim, demonstrating a noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the very 
top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two­
part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen of India, earned two bachelor of science degrees in his home 
country: one in mathematics; the other in textile chemistry. He worked about six years for textile 
manufacturers and machinery companies, gaining knowledge of end-to-end supply chain processes. 
The Petitioner then obtained a post-graduate diploma in management and ERP software certificates in 
supply chain manufacturing, advanced planning, and optimization. For about the past 20 years, he has 
worked as a software consultant in India and the United States, helping to improve supply chains of 
multinational companies in a variety of industries, including: textile; automotive; food manufacturing; 
and aerospace and defense. He contends he has extraordinary ability in improving business supply 
chains with ERP software. 
The Petitioner did not claim or demonstrate his receipt of a major, international award. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). But the record supports the Director's findings that he met two of the ten alternate 
evidentiary standards. The record demonstrates his authorship of scholarly articles about ERP 
software and business supply chain processes. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He also established his 
participation as a judge of others' work in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in finding that he did not meet at least a third 
evidentiary standard. He asserts his membership in associations in his field that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and his performance in leading or critical roles for organizations with 
distinguished reputations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (viii). 
A. Membership in Associations in the Field Requiring Outstanding Achievements 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in associations in the 
field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In response to the Director's July 7, 2022 request for additional evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
submitted documentation of his purported affiliations with various organizations, including: the Royal 
Academy of Engineers in the United Kingdom; the publisher of "Who's Who in America;" and Nest, 
a U.S. nonprofit organization supporting growth of handmade goods around the world. The Director 
found that, because the Petitioner's documents bear dates after the petition's June 28, 2022 filing, the 
evidence does not establish his claimed memberships in these organizations at the time of the petition's 
2 
filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) (requiring a petitioner to demonstrate eligibility "at the time of filing 
the benefit request"). The Director therefore concluded that the documentation did not meet the 
evidentiary standard. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he joined the organizations before the 
petition's filing. 
1. The Royal Academy of Engineers 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated his "role as a mentor for [the] Engineering Leaders 
Scholarship program at the prestigious Royal Academy of Engineering[,] developing and supporting 
the next generation of leaders in Engineering." He submitted the first five pages of a purported ten­
page academy document outlining "the expectations of being a mentor" in the program and printouts 
of pages on the academy's website regarding the organization's "strategy" for 2020 to 2025. The 
academy's website states that the organization "harness[es] the power of engineering to build a 
sustainable society and an inclusive economy that works for everyone." Royal Acad. of Eng'g, 
https://raeng.org.uk/. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits copies of June 2022 emails between him and the manager of the 
Royal Academy of Engineering's mentoring program.1 The copies show that, on June 9, the Petitioner 
messaged the British academy, stating his interest in "mentoring opportunities" and asking whether 
he could participate from his location in the United States. The academy manager responded the same 
day, stating that, as long as the Petitioner and his "mentee" agree on suitable times for online video 
meetings, the Petitioner's location in the United States would not bar his participation in the program. 
The manager also asked the Petitioner about his background and how he learned of the mentoring 
opportunity. He responded the same day, attaching a copy of his curriculum vitae and stating that an 
academy official had emailed him about the opportunity. On June 13, the manager messaged the 
Petitioner that the academy "would love to onboard you as a Mentor for our Engineering Leaders 
Scholarship" and thanked him for his "generous offer to support our engineering students." The email 
also explained how he could create an online, "mentoring profile" to be matched with a mentee. The 
Petitioner contends that the email exchange demonstrates his June 13, 2022 approval as an academy 
mentor, before the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. 
The Petitioner has demonstrated his acceptance as a mentor with the Royal Academy of Engineering 
before the petition's filing. But the Petitioner's materials do not meet the evidentiary standard at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). A petitioner must demonstrate their membership in an association and that 
the membership required judgments by recognized national or international experts that the noncitizen 
attained outstanding achievements in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2), App'x.: 
Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. If an association has multiple levels of membership, a petitioner must show that, to obtain 
their membership level, recognized national or international experts judged the noncitizen's 
achievements in the field to be outstanding. Id. 
1 If a petitioner received sufficient, prior notice ofrequired proof and a reasonable opportunity to provide it, we generally 
disregard evidence on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 T&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017). The Director's RFE did not notify 
the Petitioner that his evidence had to establish his eligibility "at the time of filing the benefit request." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). We will therefore consider the Petitioner's evidence on appeal. 
3 
The Petitioner's evidence does not establish his membership in the Royal Academy of Engineering. 
Rather, the materials indicate only his acceptance as a mentor in an academy program. Our review of 
the academy's website did not find any information about "membership." Rather, the site refers to an 
academy "fellowship," which stems from annual elections of academy "fellows" in recognition of 
their "outstanding and continuing contributions to the profession." Id., at https://raeng.org.uk/about­
us/fellowship. The Petitioner, however, has neither claimed to be an academy "fellow" nor 
demonstrated his election as one. 
Further, even if the Petitioner's acceptance as a mentor qualified him as a member of the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, he would not have established that his membership required judgments by 
recognized national or international experts of his attainment of outstanding achievements in his field. 
The Petitioner submitted mentoring program documentation describing a mentor as "an established or 
experienced person." But the documents do not detail any other qualifications. We therefore conclude 
that the Petitioner's evidence of his mentorship at the engineering academy does not meet the standard 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2. "Who's Who in America" 
The Petitioner's RFE response stated his inclusion in "Who's Who in America," an online directory 
containing short biographies of distinguished Americans in various fields. An August 5, 2022 letter 
from the publisher's editorial team congratulates the Petitioner on his inclusion in the directory. The 
letter states that the registry seeks "to profile those individuals who have made a difference by virtue 
of the positions of responsibility they hold and/or due to noteworthy accomplishments they have 
made." According to a certificate the Petitioner received from the publications board, inclusion in the 
directory "is limited to individuals who possess professional integrity, demonstrate outstanding 
achievement in their respective fields and have made innumerable contributions to society as a whole." 
A printout from the publisher's website states the company's receipt of nominations from "personal 
referrals, industry surveys, review of significant publications, and through our continual monitoring 
of newspapers, magazines, awards, grants, educational and corporate records." The printout states 
"we select individuals for inclusion based on professional and personal accomplishments, education, 
contributions to society, and involvement with important institutions or events." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of a June 22, 2022 email, congratulating him on his 
nomination for inclusion in "Who's Who in America" and urging him to "[aa ]ccept your nomination to 
verify your information and provide the details of your accomplishments." Blaming "long processing 
times and administrative delays," the Petitioner admits that he did not receive notice of his inclusion 
in the directory until after the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. But he asserts that the June 22 email 
from the publisher shows that his "nomination/selection" and "actual inclusion" in the directory 
predated the petition's filing. 
The June 22, 2022 email, however, does not support the Petitioner's assertion. The email indicates 
that the Petitioner's nomination did not guarantee his inclusion in the directory. The email states: 
"Your information will be reviewed to determine qualification. Upon confirmation, you will be listed 
among 1.5 million of the world's most successful professionals in our online registry." Thus, the June 
22 email does not constitute approval of the Petitioner's listing in the registry. Rather, the message 
indicates that approval would not occur until "confirmation" of his "qualification." The email 
4 
therefore does not establish the Petitioner's inclusion in "Who's Who in America" before the petition's 
filing. Thus, he has not demonstrated his satisfaction of the evidentiary standard "at the time of filing 
the benefit request." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, while the Petitioner's certificate states the directory's inclusion of people who, in part, 
"demonstrate outstanding achievement in their respective fields," the Petitioner has not established 
that "recognized national or international experts" in his field judged his achievements to be 
outstanding. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The printout from the publisher's website states "we 
select individuals for inclusion," indicating that the publisher's employees judge candidates' 
accomplishments. ( emphasis added). Reportedly, "an editorial team of 70, including 12 researchers, 
make the call on who's notable and who's not." William L. Hamilton, "Who Are You? Why Are 
You Here?" The New York Times (Nov. 13, 2005), https://www.nytimes.com/2005/l l/13/fashion/ 
sundaystyles/who-are-you-why-are-you-here.html. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
editorial team that selected him for inclusion in "Who's Who in America" included recognized 
national or international experts in his field. For this additional reason, the documentation of his 
inclusion in the directory does not meet the evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3. The Nonprofit Fellowship 
The Petitioner's RFE response also included copies of emails regarding his interest in becoming a 
fellow at the nonprofit organization. A printout of the nonprofit' s website describes the fellowships 
as "virtual consulting opportunities ... to work on a unique project in support of an artisan business." 
The emails show that, on June 18, 2022, the Petitioner messaged the nonprofit, identifying himself as 
a "textile engineering graduate" and asking about "the process for becoming a fellow." Three days 
later, an organization official responded to him, providing information about the fellowship program 
and, if he was still interested in the role, asking him to complete an "intake survey." That same day, 
the Petitioner replied to the official, stating his completion of the survey and asking for "an official 
certificate of professional fellow that I am part of this fellowship program at an advisory level based 
on my industry and technology expertise." The official did not respond to the Petitioner until 
September 13, 2022, indicating the nonprofit's acceptance of his fellowship. The message states: "We 
are thrilled to have you on board for this impactful program. More details will be shared shortly." 
The official also stated that, although the organization did not issue fellowship certificates, it would 
consider doing so in the future. 
On appeal, the Petitioner downplays the significance of his June 21, 2022 email to the nonprofit, 
describing it as "a follow-up email asking for a certificate." He contends that he completed the "actual 
formalities" of becoming a fellow on that date, before the petition's June 28, 2022 filing. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of demonstrating the nonprofit's acceptance of his fellowship 
before the petition's filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Even ifhe did, however, the Petitioner would 
not satisfy the evidentiary standard. He has not established that his fellowship required recognized 
national or international experts in his field to find his attainment of outstanding achievements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Thus, the Petitioner's proof of his fellowship at the nonprofit does not meet 
the evidentiary standard. 
5 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of the evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We will therefore affirm that portion of the Director's decision. 
B. Performance in Leading or Critical Roles for Organizations with Distinguished Reputations 
The Petitioner contends that he met another evidentiary standard. This provision requires "[ee ]vidence 
that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have 
a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In assessing eligibility under this standard, USCIS first determines whether the evidence demonstrates 
a petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2), 
App'x: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence. A leading role means 
that a petitioner "is ( or was) a leader within the organization or establishment or a division or 
department thereof." Id. A critical role means that a noncitizen "has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment." Id. 
Next, USCIS determines whether an organization, establishment, department, or division for which a 
petitioner held a leading or critical role has a distinguished reputation. A distinguished reputation 
finding must stem from consideration of multiple factors, not just "the relative size or longevity of an 
organization or establishment." Id. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his performance in a leading or critical 
role. As proof of his purported qualifying roles, the Petitioner submitted seven letters from officials 
of his current and former employers, and one from an official of a former client. The Director found 
that the letters do not: 
illustrate how [the Petitioner's] role made him more valuable than other colleagues at 
his places of employment. The evidence indicates that the petitioner is successful at 
accomplishing his job duties, but the record does not contain evidence to show that he 
was responsible for any organization's success or standing to a degree consistent with 
the meaning of "leading or critical role." 
The Petitioner contends that "recognized and reputable leaders" wrote the letters for him. He states 
that his roles have been leading and critical because they required "cross-functional skills to manage 
programs/projects of significant importance to the distinguished organizations." 
The letters state that the Petitioner played "key" and "critical" roles in multiple supply chain software 
projects. As the Director found, however, the letters lack sufficient details to explain how his roles 
were leading or critical. For example, letters from two senior information technology executives at 
the Petitioner's current employer praise his role in integrating the business of an acquired company 
into the employer's supply chain operations. They state that he led an "important" integration of the 
employer's tomato business onto a modernized platform to better manage the acquired tomato 
operations. But the letters do not detail the Petitioner's activities, whom or how he led the integration 
6 
efforts, challenges he faced, or how he overcame them. 2 Also, although the letters describe the 
integration of the tomato businesses as "important," the documents do not explain why the project was 
important or why company officials chose the Petitioner to purportedly lead it. 
Some letters from the Petitioner's current and former employers are also unreliable. As the Director's 
RFE states, the bodies of the two letters from the executives at the Petitioner's current employer 
virtually match. The letters' common language suggests that the same person drafted both documents, 
casting doubt on the signatories' purported knowledge and descriptions of the Petitioner's work. See 
Matter of R-K-K-, 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015) (holding that numerous and obvious similarities 
between documents supported an adverse credibility determination). In the Petitioner's RFE response, 
one signatory asserted that he wrote his letter. The other admitted that "I did ask [the Petitioner] to 
write up a bullet sheet of the activities he performs for my organization, but I can assure you that what 
I have written ... is an honest and accurate representation of the work and effort [he] put forth." 
Further, much of an undated letter from an executive at a former employer of the Petitioner matches a 
portion of a 2009 letter from another official of the employer. The employer submitted the 2009 letter 
to a U.S. Consulate in India in support of the issuance of a nonimmigrant work visa to the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner's inclusion of a copy of the 2009 letter in his RFE response revealed the similarities 
between the 2009 letter and the previously submitted document from the executive. Also, the 
executive's document was not printed on company or even his personal letterhead, casting doubt on 
its authenticity. 
The Petitioner's support letters lack sufficient details to establish the purported leading and critical 
roles he performed for his current and former employers. Similarities between the letters also cast 
doubt on their accuracy and reliability. The Petitioner therefore has not demonstrated that he met the 
evidentiary standard at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time award or satisfaction 
of at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We therefore need not make a final merits determination on 
his claimed possession of extraordinary ability. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
reviewed the entire record and concluded that it does not support the Petitioner's receipt of the level 
of acclaim and recognition required for the requested classification. The record also does not 
otherwise demonstrate his rank among the small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established his eligibility for classification as a noncitizen of extraordinary 
ability. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The record contains details about software projects on which the Petitioner purportedly worked. But he appears to have 
written this information. The information is unreliable because the Petitioner may be biased in describing his roles on the 
projects. Also, the record lacks sufficient evidence corroborating his statements. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l) ("statements made by ... witnesses should be corroborated by documentary evidence in the record"). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19 819190 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 23, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a recording engineer and producer , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatterofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of an individual's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can 
submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-{x), 
including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those 
standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner began working in Brazil as a producer, musician, and engineer in the early 1990s. He 
stated that his "extensive work portfolio includes production and recording credits of hit albums for some 
of the most important artists in a variety of genres." The Petitioner has been in the United States since 
2016 in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Prior to the denial of the petition, the Petitioner claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the perfonning arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had met only one criterion, pertaining to prizes or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria relating to membership in associations; 
published material; artistic display; and leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not address or 
dispute the Director's conclusions regarding commercial success and original contributions, and 
therefore we consider those claims to be abandoned. 2 
We conclude that submitted articles from O Globo and Audio Musica & Tecnologia appear to meet 
the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) regarding published material about the individual in 
1 0-1 non immigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Futihermore, in June 2021, while the present appeal was 
pending, the Petitioner filed a secondimmigrantpetitionon his own behalf, with receipt number I again 
seeking classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director approved that petition in November 2022. 
Nevertheless, the records ofproceedingfortheapproved petitions are not before us, and therefore we cannot compare the 
records to determine whether the approved petitions involved different facts, or were approved in error. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (holding that a plaintiff's claims were abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office). 
2 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. We will discuss the other claimed 
criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claimed that he "has either obtained or been nominated for at least two ... Latin Grammys." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements of this criterion, but the record 
does not support this conclusion. 
A petitioner must establish that the individual personally received the prize or award. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Translated certificates from the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (Latin Recording 
Academy) do not indicate that the Petitioner personally received or was nominated for a Latin Grammy. 
Rather, he received the certificates "in recognition of [his] participation as Mastering Engineer" on an 
album that won the Latin Grammy for Best Album, and on another album nominated for 
the same award. The Petitioner's involvement in award-winning or nominated projects might be a factor 
to consider in a final merits determination, but the submitted certificates are not prizes or awards in their 
own right, and they are not evidence that the Petitioner won a Latin Grammy as claimed. 
The Petitioner has not documented his receipt of any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe11s in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner is a voting member of the Latin Recording Academy and the Recording Academy, which 
awards the Grammys. The record shows that voting membership in both Academies requires a specified 
minimum number ofrecent commercial releases, either physical or digital. 
The Director concluded that the Academies require members to be active participants in the recording 
industry, but do not require outstanding achievements of their members. 
The Petitioner asserts, on appeal, that a productive recording career is inherently an outstanding 
achievement, but the Petitioner cites no evidence or source for this assertion. 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that recognized national or international experts are responsible for 
judging applications for membership in either Academy. The record shows that eligibility is a matter of 
releasing a certain number of recordings within a specified period of time, without regard to the 
commercial performance or artistic merit of those recordings. The record does not show that recognized 
national or international experts are responsible for counting each applicant's recordings to determine 
eligibility. 
3 
The Petitioner has not established that his Academy memberships require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in thefield at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfies this criterion, but in response to a request for 
evidence, the Petitioner stated that his "work has been displayed at the 16th Annual Latin Grammys, an 
artistic exhibition or showcase." 
As discussed above, the Petitionerwas credited as a mastering engineer on two albums that received Latin 
Grammy awards or nominations. The Petitioner has not established that an awards ceremony is an artistic 
exhibition or showcase that displays, rather than recognizes, the nominated works. Even then, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to show that his work as a maste1ing engineer was displayed at 
the award ceremony. In this regard, it bears repeating that the Petitioner has not shown that he personally 
won or was nominated for a Latin Grammy. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his work was displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished 
reputation, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an individual is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition of his work that 
indicates sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has had a successful career working 
4 
with a number of well-known artists on major record labels, but the record before us does not show 
that his work with these figures has earned him sustained national or international acclaim in his own 
right. The Petitioner has submitted letters from current or fonner executives of major recording 
companies, attesting to the Petitioner's involvement in successful projects, but the record provides 
little objective basis for comparing the Petitioner's achievements and recognition with those of other 
engineers and producers. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7861708 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 24, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a Contemporary Christian music composer and director, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that between 2009 and 2014, the Petitioner completed the degrees of Bachelor of 
Science, Master of Arts, Master of Divinity and Doctor of Ministry atl !university in Virginia, 
where he was also an adjunct instructor of music and worship studies. The Petitioner received 0-1 
nonimmi rant classification in 201 7 and has been employed as the music director for I I 
c::::J.in Florida I ,I The Petitioner previously worked as an assistant music director 
forl_J in.___ ___ ____. Canad~I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
one of the evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. 204.5 h 3 iv . The record reflects that the 
Petitioner participated in judging for the 201 .__ ___________________ _. 
Band Competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging 
criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional criteria, discussed below. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on his receipt of the I !Music 
A ward in 2009. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the 
prizes or awards, and that they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field 
of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner submitted a photograph of his award plaque reflecting that he received the ._I ___ _. 
Music Award "[t]o commemorate the track .__ ______ __.on the Christian Music Weekly's 
Inspo Son~s of 2009 Chart." The record, however, lacks sufficient objective evidence regarding the I J Music Award to establish that it is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
f r x 11 n in m i r h Th Petitioner provided al 12009 article titled 'I I 
.__ __________ ~ ___ ......... u_b_l_is_,hed by Liberty News. The article indicates that the 
Petitioner composed the song '.__ ______ '~' the title track on~-----------~ CJ CD released inl O 12009 on t Music record label. However, the article does not 
mention the Petitioner's receipt of the Music A ward. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides an undated document with the heading l I Mnlic Award" 
that bears the logo oti !Music. According to the information provided, the 2009 I 
Music Award is given to a composer based upon "top charting radio airplay, ongoing inclusion in 
weekly worship services as recognized byl I and 
inclusion in print/digital download for choir, praise band and orchestra." The document indicates that 
the selection criteria include "charting in the 'Top 10' on a rei:mtable radio chart (i,e, Billboard, 
Christian Music Weekly, Neilson)," having been "[r]eleased on al IProject in the past year 
and distributed nationwide," having been "[r]egistered with I I and have ranked within their 
charts of songs used by churches in North America." The press release shows that five songs were 
nominated for the award, and that the winner was to be presented "a commemorative plaque with the 
highest charting position achieved" at an annual gala. However, this document is not a letter and is 
not attributed to or signed by a responsible authority for that organization. As a result, we cannot 
determine the actual source of the information contained therein, which limits the probative value of 
this evidence. 
Although the documentation indicates that the award is given byl I Music to artists working 
for the record label, the Petitioner did not show that the field recognizes the 'I I Music Award" 
as a national or international award for excellence. The submitted evidence does not demonstrate, for 
example, that the award winners receive a level of media coverage associated with a nationally or 
internationally recognized award in the entertainment industry. Therefore, while the Petitioner 
documented his receipt of the I I Music Award, the supporting evidence is insufficient to 
document that this is an nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
field. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
2 Id. 
3 The record reflects that the song was in the top ten oflnspirational songs on the Christian Music Weekly radio chart in 
.__ _______ ~009. It appears, therefore, that the Liberty News article was published before the Petitioner 
received the award. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted various letters of support discussing his work 
as a Contemporary Christian music composer and director. 4 The Director considered this 
documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work 
constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, 
we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "failed to appreciate the global impact of._l __ _. I t as advancing and expanding the reach of the genre of Christian Music" and contends that 
the song "struck a [ chord] with untold nwnbers of people nationally and abroad." As ~vid~re, the I 
Petitioner points to letters of support froml ] the Petitioner's classmate from 
University and the managing partner of the German music publishing clmpanyll I 
indicates that~ partners with various music companies, including University's 
I I~ Ito "[supply] German churches with new songs." Regarding the song 
I L" he states that "whenl Ir signed] the song, I was asked to work out an 
official German translation. He further provides that his company has six of the Petitioner's songs in 
its catalogue and "they are among our best-selling works." These letters do not offer sufficiently 
detailed information, nor does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to 
demonstrate the nature of specific original contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that 
have been considered to be of major significance. 
As further evidence for this criterion! the Petitioner provides letters of support from several other 
colleagues and mentors, many from_ I University. For example,! I a 
songwriter, musician and worship leader, states that the Petitionr's doctoral thrsis "was a great help 
in my own Universit doctoral dissertation .... " ~-----~-Director of Product 
Development for~------~' indicates she has worked with the Petitioner for several years 
in organizing song showcases, where his responsibilities included song selection, working with bands, 
show direction and production, and personal performance. She credits the Petitioner's expertise as a 
professional musician and his leadership skills with college students in creating well-organized 
programs. 
In addition,! I a music artist and producer, indicates that the Petitioner was his worship 
studies professor atl I University and taught him the "foundational principles" of leadership, 
large group communication, and musical performance . .__ ________ __. the Petitioner's 
professor atl _ !University, states that "[w]hile a student and [a]djunct teachler, [the ~etitioner] 
completed several songwriting projects, performed by the Choirs and Orchestra at niversity 
4 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
and subsequently published b~ ~, He emphasizes that the Petitionre=r--=' sa....:s=o=n=g._.j __ --,.. _ _J I I was "also performed across the United States, in Europe and Russia." I I an 
award-wining songwriter, indicates that he has worked with the petitioner on "nationwide events in 
Canada, and across the United States" and praises his "expertise in songwriting, performing, speaking, 
and teaching." 
While the above-referenced letters praise the Petitioner's skills as a music composer, performer and 
teacher, they are not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions as a music composer and 
director rise to the level of a contribution of major significance in the music field. For instance, the 
record does not show that his skills in music composition and direction have widely influenced the 
field beyond the programs where he has participated and taught, or has otherwise risen to the level of 
contributions of major significance in the field. The language of this regulatory criterion requires that 
the Petitioner's original contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly 
affecting his students and colleagues. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 
2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not 
corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Similarly, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's song I I' or his other 
music compositions have widely influenced the work of other Contemporary Christian musicians, that 
his music compositions are highly renowned by recognized music critics, or that his original work 
otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. Without sufficient evidence 
demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showin that his doctoral dissertation titled ' 
--...---------------------------------' was published in 
2014. The Director determined that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. In reaching this 
conclusion, the Director noted that the regulations clearly require evidence of authorship of articles in 
the field in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 5 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I the administrator of I I University's 
institutional repository,~-----~ I indicates that"[ o ]nly works that are created by 
our students and faculty are permitted to be included in our institutional repository." She provides 
5 The Director further emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that his dissertation has been cited by others. 
The director concluded that"[ w ]ithout any citation history, it cannot be concluded that it is a scholarly publication." The 
level ofrecognition received by the Petitioner's disseitation would be more relevant to an examination of the totality of the 
evidence. As discussed above, where a petitioner provides qualifying evidence satistying the initial evidentiary criteria, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
5 
that the Petitioner's dissertation was submitted into.__ ______ _, in D 2014, after it was 
defended and approved by the dissertation committee. She emphasizes that works in I I 
University's institutional repository may be accessed by researchers around the world "through 
searches in Google, Google Chrome, Google Scholar, and other major search engines." 
The publication of the Petitioner's doctoral dissertation onl I, the I I University 
website repository for publication of its student and faculty theses and dissertations, with no apparent 
selection process for publication, does not amount to the publication of a scholarly article in a 
professional journal or other major media. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 6 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. 7 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion as an academic....atJIUniversity 
"assisting in the development of a music program," and as a worship pastor at ~hes in "the 
selection and performance of Christian music." Although the Petitioner provided letters from 
representatives of those organizations, they did not describe in sufficient detail what role the Petitioner 
has played in the organizations' respective activities or how his role has been critical to the outcome 
of the organizations' activities. 8 
For example.I I, a pastor who was the Petitioner's mentor atl I for five years, 
indicates that as the church's assistant music director the Petitioner formed a choir that assisted in 
worship services, frequently sang and played keyboards, and assisted in monthly music training nights. I I the lead pastor of I I indicates that the Petitioner "led 
congregational worship, mentored and trained musicians] [ and chose music for Sunday worship and 
other special services." Neither the letter ofl _ nor establishes that the 
Petitioner played a leading or critical role in those ch h s statements that the Petitioner 
formed a choir that assisted in worship services and.__ _____ ~' s statements that the Petitioner 
chose music and led congregational worship do not establish how he played a leading or critical role. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id., at 10-11. 
8 Id. at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or 
critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
In addition, the broad statements oft Ian executive ministry consultant at._l ____ _,, 
that the Petitioner "has played a critical role by shaping and developing the songwriting and worship 
culture" at the church are not sufficiently supported in the record and do not establish how the 
Petitioner played a critical role. 
Further, I I an associate professor of songwriting and commercial music at .... l _.,.....,...__. 
University, asserts that the Petitioner "played a leadership role" in helping to establish the songwriting 
program atl I University through his "curriculum development" and promotion of the program 
"at Christian events, songwriting workshops and seminars," and a "key role" in the program's 
'Principles of Songwriting' class. However, this broad statement does not contain the detailed and 
probative information needed to establish, as claimed, that the Petitioner's participation was of 
significant importance to the outcome of the university's activities. Finally, even if the Petitioner 
played a leading or critical role in their development, a program or a class is not an "organization or 
establishment" and the Petitioner's role would not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of his paystub indicating thatl I paid him a net biweekly 
salary of $2,607 in April 2019, or an annual salary of approximately $65,175. The Petitioner also 
provided, as a point of comparison, an O*Net printout from the Department of Labor, Office of Foreign 
Labor Certification, reflecting that the Level 4 prevailing wage for "Music Directors and Composers" 
between July 2018 and June 2019 in the Petitioner's geographic area is $145,704 per year. Based on 
the information provided, the Petitioner has not established that he has commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided an O*Net printout reflecting the prevailing wage for "Clergy," however, 
because the Petitioner's field is music composer and director, offering wages for clergy for his 
geographic area does not provide an appropriate basis for comparison in demonstrating that his 
earnings constitute a high salary relative to "others in the field." The Petitioner must present evidence 
showing that he has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those 
performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers). The Petitioner 
has not established that the wage information he presented for clergy constitutes an appropriate basis 
for comparison. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least two 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
7 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant pet1t10ns are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), he 
does not meet any additional criteria on appeal relating to nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, original contributions, scholarly articles, leading or critical roles with organizations, or high 
salary or other remuneration. While he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on 
appeal, relating to commercial successes in the performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), we need 
not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 9 Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner's work as a Contemporary Christian music composer and director has brought 
praise for his creativity, experience, and technical skill, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15821268 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an associate professor of computer science, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met that burden. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as an associate professor at the Institute of 
Computing Technology, The Petitioner's resume reflects that he 
worked for~----------~ as a research scientist from 2007 until 2010, and later 
as a senior research scientist and director assistant from 2010 through 2014. In 2007, he received his 
doctorate degree in computer science from the Institute of Computing Technology,,.___ _____ _. I I where he also worked as a research assistant during his graduate studies. The Petitioner 
states that his research interests include! I andl I, including I I I I models.I ~I I. and information theory. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts for 
several conferences in his field. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications 
including scientific journals and conference proceedings. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously determined that he does not meet a third 
criterion, related to his original contributions in the field, which we will discuss below. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a determination 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence relating to the publication of his research in professional 
journals and conference proceedings (including evidence of citations of his work), evidence related to 
his patents, letters from experts in his field (including colleagues and independent experts) who discuss 
his work and his reputation, and evidence related to the practical application of his work by private 
sector companies. 
The Petitioner places considerable emphasis on his overall publication and citation record in support 
of his assertion that he meets this criterion. While we will discuss this evidence below, we emphasize 
that this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field and not simply to his establish that his total number of citations compares 
favorably to others in his field. It is the Petitioner's burden to identify his specific original 
contributions, explain why they are of major significance in the field, and to submit sufficient evidence 
to corroborate that significance. 
The Petitioner has consistently stated that his original contributions of major significance in the=] I land I I field fall within three areas: (1) development of "novel approaches for I I from I I data"; (2) development of "novel frameworks for ~----~ understanding and I h and (3) development of "new models that 
significantly increase the accuracy ofl I' in the field of I I 
The Petitioner provided five independent expert opinion letters in support of the petition, each of which 
discusses two of his published papers. As discussed below, the authors of the letters describe the 
Petitioner's work in significant technical detail, state where his research was published, and then 
declare with minimal elaboration that the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the I I 
field. Further, with one exception, the letters do not focus on the work that the Petitioner himself 
identified as highly cited in his field. 
For example.I I a vice president withl I states that the Petitioner "conducted 
pioneering research on defining! I" explains the research, and notes 
that the Petitioner was able to present "the convenient and unified checking conditions for ,□"I J I !generalizing and illuminating the common nature of alll ~,, ~---~Is 
reference to the research as "pioneering" is not sufficient to establish that it had a remarkable impact 
or influence or that is otherwise deemed a contribution of major significance in the field. He also 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
discusses the Petitioner's "studies on inl !systems, explains these 
studies in detai I, and states that "the identified by [the Petitioner] are conducive 
to better organizing,.___ ____ _.so as to attract more user dwell time in these systems." He notes 
the publication of the two referenced studies in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory and in the 
Proceedings of The 25th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), 
respectively. 2 I I does not further describe how either of the papers mentioned is of major 
significance or otherwise discuss the impact or influence of the Petitioner's findings in their shared 
field. He concludes that the Petitioner's work "has helped shape the modern data science field" but 
does not elaborate on this critical point. 
I I Vice President of Engineering and.___ ______ _. at I I likewise 
provides highly technical descri tions of two of the Petitioner's research studies.3 He explains that the 
Petitioner developed a.___ ___________ ---;::===::;--------' and published 
his work in the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. I I also discusses the Petitioner's 
proposal of ".:==::::;-~--:------:-----:----:-------:-~~-:-------:---:-:-------:---..------'" and notes that 
both of thesel I machine methods "perform better than baseline methods." However, he does not 
describe how these methods have impacted or influenced further research or state that the methods have 
achieved widespread application in the field. He offers a general conclusion that the Petitioner's 
"significant discoveries" have "significant impact on the development of new methods tori I I !generation, and the benefits of [his] research are national in scale," but he does not 
explain the impact or the resulting benefits. 
A letter froml I Chair Professor at thd I University of Science and Technology 
follows a similar pattern. He provides a technical description of a study in which the Petitioner 
"successfully realizeq ltrom multiple source domains visal t and 
another study in which the Petitioner "developed [a] novel method for I J and 
I I across multiple domains using I I model for I I" I Is 
summaries of the Petitioner's published studies are highly detailed but he does not explain the influence 
or impact of the Petitioner's research in the field or otherwise offer an assessment or analysis of how 
either of these individual research contributions is considered a contribution of major significa~ 
Rather, he generally credits the Petitioner with presenting "a host of developing novel methods forLJ 
I I' and states that "the huge influence of his research" is reflected in his cumulative citation numbers. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from I Ian associate professor atl I University at 
I I I I states that the Petitioner "made significant contributions to I I 
.___ ______ __.I," which she describes as "an importan~ lproblem with many broad 
applications." She provides technical details regarding two of his published articles in this area of 
2 The Petitioner's Goo:le Scholar profile submitted at the time of filing in August 2018 did not include either article 
referenced byl J An updated profile the Petitioner submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) indicated that the articles had been cited 10 times and 1 time, respectively, as of February 2019. 
3 Neither of the studies referenced b~ I appeared on the initial Google Scholar profile submitted at the time of 
filing; the updated profile showed 14 citations to the Petitioner's 2017 AAAI paper I I 
I I and 0 citations to his 2018 AAAI paper I I 
~-------~1· 
4 
research, noting his development otl lthat he has namedl I andl 141 I 
describes the Petitioner's approach as "innovative and creative" and states that he was "a pioneer m 
------..~-~~-~~-~-~~-------'□ 
concludes her letter b statin that the Petitioner "has made many crucial contributions of both 
research" but she does not explain how his work in the '---~-------------...._____, area o_.__ _____________ ____.~as been remarkablv iofll,eotial Df impactful in the 
field or provide further explanation as to why his i~----------~j are considered a 
contribution of major significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Finally, the record contains a letter froml I chair Professor of Finance a,-Jtl ______ _ 
Graduate School of Business, who discusses the Petitioner's 2012 publication titled ·~I----~ 
He ex lains that that the Petitioner 
developed ' which he describes as "a method to ~-___.!.,._.__ ___ L..-_~ ~--___,J ............ ------------~ ~---------~ and explains what~---~ is and why it is a challenging problem 
in data science.~tes that while several methods had been proposed to tackle the challenge, 
the Petitioner'sl___Jtramework was a novel framework that proved to "achieve significantly 
higher accuracy over state-of-the-art methods." He indicates that the Petitioner's work "has been 
extensively followed by his peers and the paper has been cited 188 times so far." But he does not 
indicate the significance of the number of citations or, more importantly, detail how the Petitioner's 
framework has been particularly impactful or influential in the field or explain how it has been applied 
by others. While the record reflects that this paper is the Petitioner's most-cited work, neither the 
citation history norl Is letter offers sufficient support for a conclusion that it is regarded in the 
field as a contribution of major significance. 
The letters considered above uniformly praise the Petitioner for his work, but primarily contain 
technical descriptions of the Petitioner's research and attestations of its novelty without providing 
specific examples or probative analysis of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 Letters that lack specifics do 
not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the 
Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented in the field or establish that the 
Petitioner's work has had an impact in the field commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
As noted, the Petitioner places considerable emphasis on the publication of his work in high-impact 
journals in his field, on his cumulative citation numbers, and on the citation rates for some of his 
4 The two publications mentioned inl Is letter were not listed on the initial Google Scholar profile submitted with 
the petition. The updated document submitted in response to the RFE showed that the Petitioner's 2012 paper 
'-------..---------------------------' had been cited 15 times, 
and his 2015 paper "~----------~· had been cited 6 times. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
5 
individual publications. We have considered this evidence in conjunction with the Petitioner's own 
explanations of his contributions in the field and the opinions of experts discussed above. 
While he contends that he authored "high-quality scientific publications in top-ranked journals and 
conferences," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that publication of his articles in highly ranked or 
prestigious journals or conference proceedings is sufficient to demonstrate that he has made original 
contributions of major significance. A given publication's high ranking or impact factor only reflects 
the publication's overall citation rate; it does not demonstrate an individual author's influence or the 
impact of their research in the field. Nor is there evidence to support a conclusion that any article 
published in a highly ranked journal automatically reflects a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes his cumulative citation numbers, as reflected in his Google Scholar 
profile.7 He notes that according to information published by lnCites: Essential Science Indicators, 
"researchers in the computer science field whose research has received 150 citations are ranked in Top 
1 % in the field," and states that his cumulative citations exceed this threshold by 10 times. In general, 
the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates 
that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination, in those cases where a petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Another set of data presented by the Petitioner is intended to compare the rate and frequency of 
citations to his individual articles to those of other scientists in his field. The Petitioner provides a 
chart in which he lists nine publications (published between 2011 and 2015) that fall among the "most 
cited papers in Computer Science field" according to the percentile rankings provided by lnCites: 
Essential Science Indicators. Specifically, he indicates that citations to the listed publications places 
each of them within the top 0.1 to 1 % of all papers published in the field in the same year. Based on 
the evidence the Petitioner provided from Google Scholar, the nine articles he identifies as highly­
cited had been cited between 26 and 196 times at the time he filed this petition. Of these, four papers 
had fewer than 50 citations, three had citations in the 68 to 80 range, one had 104 citations, and one 
had 196 citations and is his most-cited paper overall. 
As noted, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but also to 
explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication 
that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, comparative 
rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given petitioner has 
made a contribution of major significance in the field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, 
7 The Director determined that there were inconsistencies in the record with respect to the Petitioner's Google Scholar 
profile. We note that the profile submitted at the time of filing lists 20 publications and a cumulative citation count of 
1677, while the updated profile submitted in response to the RFE lists significantly more than 20 publications and 1867 
cumulative citations. The first list appears to represent the Petitioner's top 20 publications, while the second listing appears 
to be complete. Given the passage of approximately six months between the date of filing and the date of the RFE response, 
we do not find the number of cumulative citations to be inconsistent. We emphasize, however, that the Petitioner must 
establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and 
continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). For this reason, our focus is on the initial citation record 
submitted at the time of filing. 
6 
would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly cited 
articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. Highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance" as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that any of the nine articles he characterizes as 
highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's research findings, individually or 
collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. In fact, of these nine publications, only 
one of them is mentioned in one of the expert opinion letters submitted in support of this criterion. 
Although the Petitioner's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he did not 
establish that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" as 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of several research articles that cited 
to his work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner 
provided a copy of a 2016 article titled ,___ __________ ___.'8 that references the 
Petitioner's 2015 article in the Proceedings of the 24th ACM International Conference in Information 
and Knowledge Management. 9 The Petitioner's paper is mentioned among several previous studies 
ofl I and the authors observed that all previous methods, including the Petitioner's, I ~: However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the 
Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers. The submitted research articles reference the 
Petitioner's work as evidence of recent research, and, while the articles indicate that the authors' own 
research bui It upon the Petitioner's work, as well as the work of the other cited scientists, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the overall field views his published findings as original contributions of 
major significance. Many of the submitted articles cite to papers authored by the Petitioner that are 
not otherwise claimed to involve contributions of major significance. For example, they are not 
citations to the publications he characterizes as highly cited or to publications that are mentioned in 
the submitted expert opinion letters. The mere citation of work by others does not automatically show 
the "major significance" of this work. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several book chapters and more 
than 15 review articles. The Petitioner asserts that "review articles only include those meaningful 
progresses in [a] certain field," and therefore "being highlighted in a large number of reviews and 
books serves as solid proof for the great interest on [his] research." The Petitioner's evidence in this 
regard consists of a chart which lists the titles of book chapters and review articles, and the names of 
the books or professional publications in which they were published. He did not provide copies of 
8 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 The Petitioner also highlighted a second publication cited in this article. That 1ubli~led 
I I was authored byl II 11 andL_______..,,J This article does not 
appear on the Petitioner's Google Scholar profile. A search for the article's title on Google Scholar reflects that it was co-
authored by a computer scientist at the University ofl I who has the same name as the Petitioner. 
7 
review articles that cite his work or identify which of his articles have been referenced in review 
articles. While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions to what 
appears to be an active field of research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review 
article is one the field recognizes as majorly significant. 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence that he has been listed as a co-inventor on five U.S. patent 
applications that were filed during his employment with,___ ________ _. A patent 
recognizes the originality of the idea, but it does not by itself demonstrate that the inventor made a 
contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the significance of the innovation must be 
determined on a case-by-case basis. Here, the evidence related to these patents is limited to copies of 
the first page of the patent application publications themselves. The patent applications are not 
discussed in the Petitioner's statements or the expert opinion letters, and the record is otherwise lacking 
an explanation as to how the patented technologies have had an impact of major significance in the 
field. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that he has made contributions to products and technologies that are 
widely used by major I I companies. He provided evidence that he is a co-founder ofl I I l and asserted that the company's products, which he states are based 
on his research, "have been used by famous companies and organizations." This evidence included a 
letter from CEO, who certifies that the Petitioner is the co-founder and chief scientist of 
,___ _________ ~ and asserts that he is responsible for the company's,___ _____ ~ 
research team. also certifies that "the corel I for all the products (general products 
such as,___ __ _.~-~ I I and those organization-customized products) of our company are 
developed by [the Petitioner] and his team." 
The Petitioner emphasized that the company's products have been used by I l.thel lstock Exchange, an~ !Stock Excha'-n-ge ___ H_e_p_r-ov-id_e_d_c_op_i__.es 
of contracts signed in 2018, but did not provide any add1t1onal documentation or explanation regarding 
,.__ ________ ___, its products, or how those products represent original contributions of 
major significance that have already had a remarkable influence or impact in the field. 
The Petitioner also states that, during his tenure at Institute of Computing Technology.I I 
he has been involved in collaborative research projects with th~~--~Stock 
~E_x_c-ha_n_g_e-an_d_w-ith~leading I I companies I land I I In support of his claim, 
he submitted a "Certificate of Achievement for Joint Project" from each of these entities, all dated in 
September 2016. The certificates attest to the Petitioner's collaborative research work with these 
entities, describe that research, and indicate the benefit or potential benefit to the respective companies. 
However, they do not provide sufficient explanation of the major significance of his contributions in 
the field. 
For example, the "Certificate of Achievement" frorrj I states that 
"the~----~center ofl !Department fo~~-~fsl lhusiness 
group," worked with the Petitioner "to tackle key problems with respect to 'the establishment of the I l"' The certificate explains the research, notes that it resulted in two conference 
papers that were under review and indicates that the company "applied for four patents sharing the 
intellectual property rights with Institute of Computing Technology." It further states that the 
8 
technologies that form the subject of the patents and conference papers would "become the core ones 
of thel I platform." At the time the submitted certificate was written, the research was 
still in a developmental phase and the platform had not been launched. The record does not include 
evidence that the Petitioner co-authored the referenced patents or conference papers or evidence of the 
significant impact or influence of this work in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14444575 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did not 
establish that he has the requisite sustained acclaim at the national or international level, and that he 
is one of the small percentage of journalists at the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist who specializes in the area of I ;:l, 
Since 1998 he has written a weekly supplement in this area for th~ 7 periodical LJ 
.___ _ ____.I He states that he intends to continue working as a journalist in the United States, while also 
leading communication strategy for a company investing inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met six of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with 
the Director's conclusions regarding four of those criteria, and withdraw those aspects of his decision. 
However, we agree that the Petitioner has not otherwise established that he has enjoyed sustained 
national or international acclaim as a journalist, and that he is not one of the small percentage of 
journalists at the top of his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence which indicates that in 2017 he received the "National Rails 
Award" from the Rails Multimedia Group. A letter from the Multimedia Director of this organization 
states that the Petitioner was awarded ""for his extraordinary qualities as a journalist specialized in 
,___ ___________ __." The Director indicated, without providing analysis, that this 
award was sufficient to meet this criterion. 
The plain language of this criterion dictates that in order to qualify, an award must be given for 
excellence in a petitioner's field of endeavor. Although the initial letters from the awarding 
organization's multimedia director suggest that the award recognizes excellence in journalism, other 
evidence in the record contradicts these statements. An article posted to the website 
2 
~-------~ states that the National Rails Award "distinguishes anl O b leading 
personality noted for its work in the development, growth, and dissemination of the rail system for 
both the passenger and cargo sector." It does not mention the field of journal ism, or that the award is 
intended to award excellence in that field. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a third letter from 
the director of the awarding company. He explains the history of the award, and describes the 
Petitioner's years of contributions to the rail industry inl I through his work as a journalist. 
However, this evidence does not indicate that the National Rails Award is granted for excellence in 
journalism, or that other journalists have previously received the award. In addition, the letter and 
website article referred to above indicate that the award is granted at an annual convention for the 
I O I rail industry, not at a meeting by or for journalists. 
Further, upon review of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that it does 
not establish that the National Rails Award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of 
journalism. As noted above, it is granted at a convention for the rail industry, and the only evidence 
of recognition beyond that convention and its organizer was the article posted to 
,___ _______ __. Neither demonstrates that others in the field of journalism recognize this 
award as standing for excellence. Therefore, we disagree with the Director's conclusion and withdraw 
his finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to establish that they meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence which meets all 
elements of this criterion. Specifically, the evidence must establish that material was published, that 
it is about the individual and their work in the claimed field of expertise, and that the medium in which 
it was published is a professional, major trade or other major medium. 
The Director found that the evidence of material published in 2012, 2014 and 2019 qualified under 
this criterion, but did not otherwise identify or provide analysis of this evidence. A review of the 
evidence in the record finds several articles about the Petitioner, some of which were published in one 
of the qualifying types of media under this criterion. However, none of this material is about his work 
as a journalist. For example, an article published in the I newspaper! lonl I, 2012 
is about the Petitioner's swim across thel I and mentions that he wrote a book about 
his experience,,...__ _____ ____. Other articles about his swimmin activities which mention the 
books he wrote about them were published in.____ _____ ..--__ ...,........,and two websites. Also, 
an interview of the Petitioner about the state of the rail system in ........... ~~which appeared inl I I lis also not about his work as a journalist. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that these articles discuss his authorship of 
books "relating to his experiences in improving his health," and that "the duties of a Journalist are to 
capture a story through the experience itself, in order to display the emotion that was experienced, so 
the viewers may witness and feel what it is like to be there." He also refers to an article, said to have 
3 
been submitted as part of Exhibit 2 of his response to the RFE, which he asserts supports this 
description of journalism. However, this article is not present in the record, nor does the Petitioner 
point to other evidence to support this description on appeal. We note that the word "journalism" is 
defined as "the collection and editing of news for presentation through the media,"1 which does not 
include autobiographical accounts published in a book. 
In addition, even if the Petitioner's definition of "journalism" was supported in the record, we note 
that while the articles generally mention that he wrote a book or works as a journalist, they are not 
about his work or profession but about his activities as an amateur long-distance swimmer (aside from 
thel , I article, which as noted is about thel O I rail system.) Accordingly, we 
disagree with the Director and withdraw his finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes evidence that establishes that the Petitioner served as the president of the jury for 
the 20191 I Award, which the materials indicate "is an incentive to innovation and 
quality in th~ !industry." The Director, in his RFE, 
acknowledged this evidence, but sought further evidence to show that in this role, the Petitioner judged 
the work of others in journalism or an allied field. In his response, the Petitioner asserted that the l . I is an allied field to [his] work as a Journalist" since those 
subjects were the focus of his writing for more than 20 years. Drawing upon the definition of the word 
"allied," he asserts that since he is "the most recognized journalist inl I' focusing onl I 
~-----~that field "is inextricably connected" to his work as a journalist. We do not accept 
this interpretation of the regulation, the plain language of which requires that an individual judge the 
work of others in the same or an allied field. The fact that the Petitioner, as a journalist, specializes in 
writing about~----------~ does not create a connection between the field of 
journalism and those subjects, as the language of the criterion speaks of "an allied field" in the broader 
sense, whereas here the only connection between these disparate fields is the Petitioner himself. 
In addition, we note that the record does not indicate that the award is intended for journalists, or that 
the Petitioner actually judged the work of any journalists while acting as a juror for the I I ~ Award. The materials posted on the website I I the company which conducts the 
awards, indicate that the finalists for the award wereC] management and I I companies, not 
individual journalists or even media companies. We therefore disagree with the Director's conclusion 
regarding this criterion and withdraw his finding. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence to establish that their work in the claimed 
field of expertise was displayed at an exhibition or showcase which was artistic in nature. In his 
decision, the Director found that the notices regarding the launch event for the Petitioner's book 
1 Merriam-webster.com/dictionary/journalism, accessed on March 15, 2021. 
4 
'--------~ which took place at the I , I Museum in I II O I were 
sufficient to meet this criterion. After review, we disagree with and withdraw the Director's 
conclusion. 
First, although the Petitioner's work was displayed, this was not work in the field of journalism. As 
previously noted, he wrote this book about his swim across thel I. not in his role as a 
journalist specializing in the subjects ofl I Second, the event described 
in the evidence is a book launch for I f. In general, the main goal of a book launch 
is to promote and sell a book, and the evidence in the record does not show that the launch for the 
Petitioner's book was distinguished by artistic elements. We note that the Petitioner asserted in his 
RFE response that the work of a journalist is artistic in nature. However, whether the work of a 
journalist, or an author of an autobiography, is artistic is not a consideration under this criterion, as it 
is the exhibition or showcase at which the work is displayed which must have an artistic nature. As 
such, this evidence does not demonstrate that the displayed work was in the Petitioner's field of 
journalism, or that it was displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase as opposed to an event 
organized for commercial purposes. 
The Petitioner also asserted in his response to the Director's RFE that this book and another he wrote 
about his open water swimming experiences, .__ _____________ ____., were 
themselves artistic exhibitions or showcases where his work as a journalist was displayed. For the 
same reasons given above, we do not find that these books are works in the field of journalism. In 
addition, although the Petitioner submitted definitions of the words "exhibition" and "showcase," and 
asserted that the books he wrote are "medium[s] for exhibiting something or someone especially in an 
attractive or favorable aspect," we do not accept this interpretation of the language of this criterion. 
The individual words, sentences and paragraphs in a book or other written material do not constitute 
"work" for purposes of this criterion, just as the individual brushstrokes in a painting are not the 
"work" which is displayed in an art gallery or museum. 
Further, the Petitioner additionally asserted in his RFE response that his work was displayed in the 
form of articles he wrote for tha lweekly supplement, as well as in the form of speeches he 
gave about his swimming experiences through'------~----.,}· He repeated his argument 
that both the newspaper and the conferences are "mediums" for the display of his journalistic work, 
which he asserted is artistic in nature. However, as we noted above concerning the Petitioner's book 
launch event, it is the nature of the exhibition or showcase that this criterion requires to be artistic, and 
he has not established that a newspaper focusing on issues of~-----~or.__ ___ .... 
business conferences are artistic in nature. 
Upon review of the evidence and per the discussion above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to lesser awards, published material, 
participation as a judge, and display of his work, and withdraw the Director's findings regarding those 
criteria. Although the Director also found that the Petitioner meets two additional criteria, relating to 
his authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 
5 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach those additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
these issues.2 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. In particular, although he states that his field of 
endeavor is journalism, with a specialty in the subjects of.__~ _________ __.we note 
that the majority of the articles published about him focus on his open water swimming adventures 
and the books he wrote about them. Similarly, the evidence regarding his participation irl I 
business conferences focuses on his personal achievements as a swimmer rather than his expertise as 
a journalist. Further, although his knowledge and contributions in the area of I . I I I has been acknowledged in that industry through an award and invitation to serve as a judge, 
the record does not include evidence that either of those honors are reserved for, or have been 
acknowledged by, other journalists. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14278733 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pastry chef, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not show his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that smal I percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is currently owns and operates a bakery inl dand intends to 
open a similar business in the United States catering to thel I market in Florida. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met five of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), 
and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that he fulfills 
the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i).1 
As the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we 
will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.2 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of a certificate, with certified English translation, namjna him as the jndjyjdual 
second place winner of the 3rd! I Championship sponsored by thel I 
I [ The Petitioner also submitted a letter with certified English translation from the association, confirming 
his receipt of this prize, as well as a newspaper article discussing the national recognition afforded to this award. As a 
result, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets this criterion's mandatory elements. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim,3 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.4 Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
Over a six-year period before he filed this petition, the Petitioner has built a career in his field and has 
gained some attention for his culinary work. As indicated above, the Petitioner owns a bakery where 
he works as a pastry chef. He is a member of a professional culinary association, has judged others, 
and displayed his work in various showcases and competitions. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his personal and professional achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The Petitioner received second place in the 3rdl I in 2012. 
While his receipt of this award received national-level attention in I I publications, he has not 
demonstrated how his receipt of this single national award, which was awarded approximately five 
years prior to the filing of the petition, demonstrates the required national or international acclaim 
required for this classification, nor is his achievement sufficiently representative of sustained acclaim. 5 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in I I thP.I I Association of 
Chefs, an association dedicated to the implementation of new techniques in the gastronomic field and 
certification of professionals in the food and beverage field. Although his membership in this 
association recognizes his knowledge and success in the pastry and baking fields, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated how membership in a single association reflects that he is among that small 
percentage that has risen to the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several articles in which he was mentioned that appeared in various I I magazines with national circulation, including! l Catering Magazine, BellaVista, 
and Extra, a national newspaper. The majority of this material focuses on reporting of various career 
achievements, including the displays of his creations in 2016 pastry competitions and his judging of 
the ICPP graduate students. The Petitioner also submits screenshots and transcripts of television 
appearances onc:=J TVandl !channel 13), where he demonstrates his baking techniques. 
Although he has garnered some media attention relating to his career and achievements, the Petitioner 
did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success and being among that 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
5 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
3 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 6 Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflected a "career of acclaimed 
work" in the field or the high standard to present extensive documentation. 7 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.8 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner prtici}ated in evaluating the work of graduate students at thel I 
Bakery and Bakery Institute Foundation in 2015. The Petitioner's judging experience involves 
evaluating the work of stutlents and aspiring professionals rather than established, recognized 
professionals. Cf., Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994) (USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). Further, he did not establish that these instances place him among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). He did not show, for example, how 
his experience in judging graduate candidates compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his instance of judging contributes to a finding that 
he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his judging of 
graduate students. Moreover, serving on a judging panel does not automatically demonstrate that an 
individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of 
his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a 
consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has 
not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, displaying one's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases does not automatically place one 
at the top of the field. The Petitioner offered evidence reflecting that his work was displayed at various 
showcases, such as at the 2011 I I Express Contest, the 2012 3rd c===J 
of Cuisine and Pastry, the I , I of Pastry in 2013, the 2015 c===J" ------ of Pastry, the 2015...__ _____ __. the 2016 I I Sugar Arts, and the 
2016 ............,.--...,........,..----"Cake Design Contest. While the Petitioner presented his pastry creations at various 
venues, he did not demonstrate, for instance, that his work brought wide praise from critics, drew 
notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible for the success or standings of the events. Here, 
the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish his work from others in his field or show that it reflects 
a career of acclaimed work in the field and sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. 
6 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
7 See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
8 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b){l){A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that 
his work garnered a level of attention or was regularly seen at highly reputable venues consistent with 
being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C. F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, although he documented his income derived from and his 
employment as a culinary instructor with the~-----~ the Petitioner did not establish that 
he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b){l){A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages are tantamount to an individual 
who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C. F. R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
He did not demonstrate, for example, how his salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or 
that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field 
or placing him in the upper echelon. 
Beyond the criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the record in 
order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for the reasons 
discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
Although the Petitioner indicates he is tha:::=l of I I and the owner of his own bakery, 
he did not submit evidence to sufficiently corroborate these claims, nor did he document the business 
operations or distinguished reputation he claimed are attributed to these businesses. Regardless, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received acclaim or drew significant attention to himself based 
on his ownership of this entity or CEO position. In addition, while he claims that hils persral use and 
promotion of the I t product resulted in significant increases in sales for and I l 
he did not produce probative evidence to corroborate this claim, and did not show how these claimed 
sales figures place him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. Finally, which he 
claimed to perform a leading role as the~____,.--__________ __.s, the Petitioner 
submitted no evidence to corroborate this claim, nor did he establish that this role reflects his status in 
the upper echelon of his field. The documentation submitted by the Petitioner regarding these claimed 
roles is not indicative of or consistent with sustained national acclaim or a level of expertise indicating 
that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of his field. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. In this matter, 
we find that the evidence offered by the Petitioner does not establish that he has distinguished himself 
as a pastry chef to such an extent that he may be said to have achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim or to be within the small percentage at the very top of his field. The evidence 
indicates that the Petitioner shows talent as a pastry chef, but is not persuasive that his achievements 
5 
set him significantly above almost all others in his field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the petition may not be approved. 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15798898 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that she meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, she did not establish, 
as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field. The Director dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider on the same grounds. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who competes in the traditional karate discipline and has also 
served as an instructor in karate and Krav Maga. She indicates that she intends to continue her career 
as a competitive athlete and martial arts instructor in the United States. 
As the Petitioner has neither claimed nor established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner provided evidence establishing that she meets three criteria, related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, memberships in organizations that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and judging the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv).1 
Because the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement, he 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets the criteria related to display of 
her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decisions, including both the original denial and 
the decision dismissing her motion, reflect that he did not consider all the evidence together in its 
totality in determining whether she is eligible for the benefit sought, and instead narrowly focused on 
her awards and recent competition record. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion regarding the insufficiency of the Director's final merits 
analysis, as both decisions contain few references to the submitted evidence. For example, although 
the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the membership and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iv), no evidence related to these two criteria is mentioned or weighed in the final 
merits discussion; the Director simply observes that the criteria have been met. In fact, as noted by 
the Petitioner, the Director's analysis in the final merits determination in both decisions rested on two 
factors. First, the Director determined that although the Petitioner satisfied had received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards in karate competitions, she had not demonstrated that the 
level of competition in these tournaments was "elite." Further, the Director emphasized a lack of 
evidence related to the Petitioner's competition in tournaments between 2014 and the date of filing in 
2017 and concluded that, regardless of the reasons for this absence from competition, she could not 
establish her sustained acclaim in the field.3 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director did not adequately explain 
the reasons for denial of the petition. Accordingly, the Director's decisions denying the petition and 
dismissing the Petitioner's subsequent motion are withdrawn and the petition will be remanded to the 
Director for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with the discussion below. 
As noted, the record reflects that the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv) based on the initial evidence submitted with the petition. The 
record does not support the Director's conclusion with respect to these criteria. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should review the Petitioner's evidence and, if appropriate, allow her an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of the following evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims to have received both nationally and internationally recognized prizes or awards 
in the sport of traditional karate. In support of her claim that she received nationally recognized prizes, 
she relied on a letter from~----~· founder and chairman of the I I 
3 The Director disregarded evidence related to other martial arts activities in which the Petitioner engaged during this 
period, such as coaching. However, the record indicates the Petitioner intends to engage in both competitive athletics and 
karate instruction in the United States. In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international 
acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can 
consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such 
that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
3 
L------~----{-~~---,._ ___ __Js letter includes a list of 26 competitions in which 
the Petitioner competed in~--~ between 2003 and 2014 and lists the medals she received in each 
competition (a total of 46 gold, silver, and bronze medals). The list identifies the competitions as 
"National" andl !states that the competitions are "nationally or internationally recognized" 
because they "are regulated by WTKF," the World Traditional Karate Federation. The record did not 
include supporting evidence, such as official competition results, award certificates or medals received 
by the Petitioner in these events, or any informatir regar1ing the specific competitions in which she 
competed, which included I I Cup," Cup," I I Cup," I ICup," and I I Cup," among others. The evidence was not sufficient to establish her receipt of these 
awards or to established that the awards themselves are nationally recognized. 
With res ect to her recei t of international awards, the Petitioner submitted a letter from WTKF 
who states that she received medals in three different~ 'i=======.I C_h_a_m_p~i-on_s_h-ip_s_h_e-ld_i_ -._r--"-_-_7
__, andO(three silver, three bronze, one gold), three medals 
at a j I Championship" event held inl I and four medals at an "International 
Championship" event held inl 11 I did not provide the year in which the 
tournaments were held or address their significance, nor was there any supporting evidence regarding 
these events. 
The Petitioner submitted images of 14 "international medals" and certificates from certain 
tournaments, but there are inconsistencies in this evidence. For example, the Petitioner submitted a 
certificate from thel I traditional karate federation I, ,I indicating that she participated in 
the 13thl !championship in traditional karate in 2003, but it does not list her results. Her 
medals from 2003 appear to be from the lstl I cup, not from the event identified 
in the certificate. She also submits a total of six medals from a competition she identifies as the 2005 I I Championship, but the medals indicate on their face that they are from al I I [championship. The information accompanying the images of these medals indicates that 
she received the gold, silver and bronze medals in the individual kumite event and both a silver and a 
bronze medal in the team kata event. We note that it is unlikely that one athlete could have received 
multiple medals in the same event that these results have not been explained. 
The Petitioner also submitted images of two medals which she claims are from the 20111 I 
Championship held irl 11 I referenced this event and indicated that she was awarded 
bronze in the Kumite category and silver in the Kata category. Although she identifies the medals as 
I !Championship awards, the medals indicate on their face that they are from the "IV I I Karate Tradicional" or 4th I I Traditional Karate I !Tournament. Further, the medals indicate on their reverse that they were awarded for third 
and fourth place finishes. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner's 
initial evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that she meets this criterion. I Is letter was 
lacking pertinent information, such as the dates of the competitions in which she competed and 
information regarding the significance of such competitions. Further, as noted, the supporting 
evidence she provided was internally inconsistent and does not appear to correspond td l's 
statement. The Petitioner must resolve the inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
4 
On remand, the Director should review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and may 
request additional objective evidence to verify the awards the Petitioner received and the national and 
international recognition associated with those awards. It is not sufficient for the Petitioner to identify 
the events at which she competed as "national" or "international" as it is not presumed that every 
karate competition that draws from a national or international field of competitors awards nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on her membership inl J WTKF 
and the World Shotokan Karate Federation (WSKF) and stated that "these associations only grant 
membership to the top Martial Artists in their respective countries or disciplines." As noted, the 
Director determined that she met this criterion based on the initial evidence, which included the above-
referenced letters from I and I I, as wel I as a letter from .__ _____ ____. 
who states that he currently works as an instructor at a WSKF Academy in Ireland, but was formerly 
a board member of WSKFI I Upon review of these letters, we conclude that they do not 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
,___ ___ __.I states that the Petitioner "has been a martial artist at I I for several years" but 
does not indicate when she became a member. He indicates that "she was granted membership into 
our professional team through a highly rigorous process" and lists various requirements but it is 
unclear whether those requirements apply to,___ __ __.membership, team membership or both.0 I I mentions that applicants must be practicing martial artists with a black belt or higher, must 
be "nationally or internationally recognized," must have attained gold or silver awards in at least 10 
national or international competitions, and must demonstrate their "outstanding ability" to the 
"members of the Board of Directors." He does not indicate where the organization's official 
membership requirements and review processes can be found, identify the members of the Board of 
Directors, or indicate whether those members are recognized national or international experts in the 
field. Further, since the Petitioner did not provide evidence of when she became a member of I lwe have no basis to evaluate whether she met the membership requirements as stated by 
I I 
In his letter, Mr. Carrion asserts that the Petitioner has been a member of WTKF since 2004. He states 
that membership in WTKF requires "that the potential member present herself to a committee of 
judges who evaluate the martial artist's career and then run a series of exams on the martial artist" 
which covers "both theoretical and practical subjects." He identified five "esteemed martial artists" 
(WTKF Board Members from several countries) and states that they served on the Petitioner's 
evaluation committee. His statement does not demonstrate that membership requires "outstanding 
achievements" as he does not identify the basis on which the committee evaluates a martial artist's 
career. Nor can we determine based on the information provided that passing the practical and 
theoretical exam is an "outstanding achievement" in and of itself. Further, the Petitioner did not submit 
5 
supporting evidence, such as the WTKF's by-laws or other documentation of its membership 
requirements for individual athletes.4 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted the referenced letter from I I who states that he was 
previously a board member of WSKFI lprior to emigrating to Ireland. He asserts that the 
Petitioner was granted membership in WSKF in 2015 and that he served on the evaluation committee 
alongside other senior WSKF officials from I I and elsewhere. I I indicates that 
"WSKF approved the incorporation of [the Petitioner] due to her National and International 
achievement along her career." His letter does not sufficiently detail the WSKF membership 
requirements and review procedures for individual members, and, as with the evidence related to the 
WTKF, there is no supporting documentation that describes these requirements. 
Without additional documentation showing thatl I WTKF, and WSKF require outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by internationally or nationally recognized experts as a 
condition for membership, the Petitioner has not shown that she meets this criterion. On remand, the 
Director should review the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and may request additional 
independent evidence related to the Petitioner's memberships and the organizations' membership 
requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
As noted, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion based solely on the initial 
evidence submitted with the petition. That evidence was limited to the aforementioned letter fromD 
I I of I I In his letter.I I stated that the Petitioner "ferformed af a judge 
for our competitions" and that "[h]er responsibilities as a judge on behalf of,___ __ ___, are at a 
national level." He lists 23 events held inl I between 2000 and 2014, identifies them as 
"national events," and indicates that the Petitioner served as a judge at the junior, elite and elite/black 
belt level. I I states that in order to be a judge for competitions at the national level, an 
athlete must possess a brown belt or higher and pass a written test. The Petitioner did not submit 
documentation of herl I judging qualification or her judging credentials from any of the 
events referenced by! I many of which are also listed as events in which she competed as 
an athlete. He also indicates that the Petitioner "was selected as a judge for our national competitions 
... because of her internationally recognized track record as a martial artist and the fact that she is a 
respected figure in karate." However, the Petitioner was only 14 years old in 2000, the year in which I I asserts that she began officiating national level junior competitions. By contrast, he 
indicates that her earliest award in competition was earned in 2003. 
For these reasons, we disagree with the Director's determination that the initial evidence was sufficient 
to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. As the matter will be remanded, the Director should 
4 We reviewed the official website of the WTKF (www.wtkfederation.org) and note there is no indication that athletes may 
apply for individual membership to WTKF. The member application procedures provided refer only to national federations 
wishing to seek membership in WTKF. 
6 
review all evidence submitted in support of this criterion5 and, if appropriate, allow the Petitioner the 
opportunity to submit additional evidence. 
As discussed above, we agree with the Petitioner's argument that the Director's initial decision and 
decision on motion did not provide the Petitioner with sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial. 
However, upon de nova review, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's initial 
evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that she met three of the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As the Petitioner was not put on notice of the deficiencies in that evidence, and the 
Director's ultimate decision was otherwise deficient, will remand the matter in its entirety to the 
Director for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The matter will be remanded to the Director for further action in accordance with this decision. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 We note that, on appeal, the Petitioner claims for the first time that she is an accredited judge, inr11ctar and examiner of 
WSKR land judged national and international WSKF-sponsored competitions held in I in 2015 and 
2016. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13725062 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required, 
she did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal of that decision after reaching the same conclusion. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration , a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Ill. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied four of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display of her work at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Moreover, we conducted a final merits determination in which we reviewed the 
record as a whole, including the evidence the Petitioner submitted under other claimed criteria.1 Based 
on this review, we concluded that the Petitioner did not establish her sustained national or international 
acclaim, that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
1 During the course of the proceeding, the Petitioner had claimed to meet the criteria relating to original contributions of 
major significance in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, she argues that we applied a heightened evidentiary standard 
and did not properly weigh the evidence in its totality in the final merits determination. As noted, 
where a petitioner satisfies at least three categories of evidence, we consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 at 1115. 2 We concluded that, although the 
Petitioner had garnered awards, received press coverage, judged the work of others, and displayed her 
work, the record did not demonstrate that her achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The evidence established that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory criterion related to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards. We determined that, while the prizes and awards reflect 
recognition of her work by the field, she "did not demonstrate how her honors place her among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We observed that 
she "for instance, did not establish how her receipts of such prizes and awards compare to those in the 
upper echelon of her field," and did not provide supporting documentation showing that the awards 
garnered her "significant attention demonstrating her sustained national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner maintains that "the awards themselves speak the fact that they are national awards and 
the award winner, the Petitioner has received national acclaim" and that the awards are of such 
significance that her receipt of them clearly shows that she "is among that small percentage of the very 
top in her field." She also emphasizes that she received awards in 2006, 2007, 2011, 2014, and 2015 
and points to a non-precedent decision in which we determined that a petitioner who had received 
awards in 2006, 2009, 2010, and 2012 had established that their awards were indicative of their 
sustained national acclaim. Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts 
of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the 
issues considered, and applicable law and policy. They do not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). 
The Petitioner appears to contend that any individual who submits evidence satisfying the lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) should 
automatically meet the threshold for establishing national or international acclaim in a final merits 
determination. However, meeting the initial evidence requirement does not, in itself, establish that an 
individual is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability.3 Rather, the quality 
of the evidence must be considered as part of the final merits determination to determine whether it is 
indicative of a petitioner being one of that small percentage who have risen to the top of the field. 
While we acknowledge that the Petitioner has consistently received awards for her work, she has not 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 Id. at 13. 
3 
established that all of her awards garnered her recognition that extended beyond the exhibition or 
contest in which that work was submitted or exhibited. 
The Petitioner's claim that her awards place her among the small percentage of photographers at the 
top of the field is based on a calculation of the number of entries and number of prizes given in the 
individual contests or exhibitions in which she received an award or prize. For example, in a letter in 
support of the petition, she stated that her "commendation" award in the 20071 l I I Photography Contest I I) "put her in the top 0.1 % of the field of endeavor," 
because there were 41,980 works submitted, and 40 prizes in total (including a total of ten first, second 
and third prizes and "commendation" or honorable mention prizes in each of four categories). While 
the evidence demonstrates that her commended work was judged to be in the top 10 among an 
unspecified number of photographs submitted in her category, the results of a single contest do not 
speak to her overall placement in her field. 
The Petitioner also argues that "the AAO is wrong and unreasonable requiring the Petitioner to 
compare her awards with upper echelon of her field," citing to Muni v. INS 891 F. Supp. 440, 445 
(1995), a case involving a professional athlete in which the court rejected "an assumption ... that a 
player must be one of the League's superstars to be considered to have extraordinary ability." She 
further asserts that we erred by observing that she "did not show she received significant attention 
demonstrating her sustained national or international acclaim" as a result of the awards she received. 
While the Petitioner correctly argues that she need not establish that she is one of the foremost 
"superstars" in her field, or that there is no one more accomplished than she is, she nevertheless must 
provide sufficient context for us to evaluate whether her awards and other achievements support a 
finding that she is qualified for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. As we stated 
in our decision, such context could be provided, for instance, through comparisons of her achievements 
to those recognized as being at the top of the field, but our decision does not reflect that we imposed 
a requirement that she submit this type of evidence. 
With respect to our determination that the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate the recognition 
she received as a result of her awards, we noted that, for certain awards, the evidence in the record 
was limited to her award certificate and a published list of winners in each category. The record 
reflects that there are many national photography contests inc=] that are open to both professional 
and amateur photographers alike. We cannot conclude that winning an award, or even several awards, 
at these national competitions would automatically earn a professional photographer sustained national 
acclaim and a place among the small percentage at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner ~laces particular emphasis of her receipt of an "Excellent Photographer" award at the 
14th I I international Photography Festival, noting that this festival bestows "one of the 
top national awards in photography inl I with great international reputation." The evidence 
supports her claim that this is a well-known and prestigious festival and her most notable award, but 
she does not make the same claim or submit similar evidence regarding other awards she has received 
such as the I I' 1st I I Photographers Association Photo raphy Art 
Exhibition, the I t National Photography Competition, and the 3rd ..,__....,........, ....................... National 
Photography Art Exhibition. For all of these reasons, the Petitioner has not esta 1s e that our 
4 
evaluation of evidence related to her awards involved an incorrect application of the law or USCIS 
policy. 
The Petitioner also asserts that we erred in our evaluation of the submitted media coverage about her 
and relating to her work. Specifically, she contends that we incorrectly applied Matter of Chawathe, 
25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010), by focusing on the quantity of evidence submitted without 
discussing the quality of such evidence. In our final merits determination, we concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that "the limited media reporting on her and her activities reflects a career 
of acclaimed work." The Petitioner maintains that she submitted "a good amount" of media coverage, 
including a total of eight articles published between 2009 and 2019. She emphasizes that each article 
is "high quality" and "indicative of her recognition and sustained national acclaim." She also 
highlights certain evidence, noting, for example, that she was interviewed byl !Channel as 
part of its "Master of Photography" on line video series in 2011. The Petitioner also emphasizes media 
reports relating to a 2013 exhibition titled',___ __________________ __. 
I t' which aimed to collect "the most representative photography works and collections of 
famous photographers inl 1"4 She notes that this exhibition also included works b~ I 
who submitted a recommendation letter in support of her petition, and is regarded as "a very top 
photographer inl t· The Petitioner states that this media coverage therefore establishes that she 
"is in line with top tier photographers" and "at the top small percentage." 
While the Petitioner claims that we did not follow the standard for evidentiary review set forth in 
Chawathe, we note that both the quantity and the quality of the submitted evidence are relevant in 
showing whether she has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. The commentary for the proposed regulations 
implementing section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high 
standard be set for [individuals] of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the 
petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 
Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).5 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or USCIS policy by focusing, in part, on the number of articles the Petitioner 
submitted that specifically relate to her and her work as one indicator of whether she has enjoyed "a 
career of acclaimed work" in the field. Our decision reflects that we did not rely solely on this factor 
without consideration of the actual articles and their contents. 
As it relates to our evaluation of her experience as a judge of the work of others in her field in our final 
merits determination, the Petitioner maintains that we made an error of fact in concluding that she has 
only judged local or regional competitions. We emphasized in our decision that an evaluation of the 
significance of the Petitioner's judging experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence 
indicates the required extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 
F. 3d at 1121-22. We acknowledged that the Petitioner provided evidence that she participated as a 
review committee member for three photography exhibitions and noted that the names of the 
competitions indicate national exhibitions. However, we observed that other evidence in the record 
suggested that they were locally organized regional contests rather than nationally or internationally 
4 The Petitioner was not mentioned in the submitted media articles about this exhibition; she provided an excerpt from the 
exhibition book as evidence that her work was included. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
5 
renowned contests. On motion, the Petitioner explains that inl I national exhibitions are often 
coordinated by local organizers with the support of local district government. She also points to 
previously submitted evidence indicating that the competitions she judged accepted entries from 
photographers nationwide. Upon review, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the 
contests she judged were national exhibitions. 
The Petitioner also maintains on motion that her service as a judge in three photography contests is 
"consistent with her reputation and a career of acclaim in photography." She maintains that we applied 
an inappropriate standard in noting the absence of additional evidence that sets her apart from others 
in the field. We acknowledge that the Petitioner's invitations to judge photography competitions 
demonstrate that the contest organizers deem her to be an expert in the field. However, the Petitioner 
has not shown that this acknowledgement rises to the level of acclaim, or that her work in this role for 
three contests between 2016 and 2019 demonstrates recognition that places her near the top of her 
field and indicates sustained national acclaim. 
In our appellate decision, we also observed that the Petitioner's display of her artwork at exhibitions 
does not automatically place her at the top of her field. We acknowledged the exhibition of her work 
at the 14th and 18t~ International Photography Festival, the 2017 I I Photo Festival 
Exhibition, the 6th ~national Photography Exhibition, 2015 I I and the 1st 
.___ ____ __. International Exhibition of Photography. On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we 
erred in our observation that she "did not establish that her work garnered a level of attention or was 
regularly seen at highly reputable venues consistent with being amon that,......... .......... ...,,ercenta e who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." She asserts that and 
major venues of photography exhibitions inl I· and.___ ___ ___. ~----~ are also 
well-known venues for photography exhibitions." The Petitioner maintains that her display of her 
work at these venues in 2013-2015 and 2017-2019 indicates that her work was "regularly exhibited" 
at highly reputable venues and she specifically highlights seven exhibitions that occurred during these 
years. 
While the record establishes that the Petitioner has displayed her work at the listed festivals, it lacks 
sufficient evidence to establish that the inclusion of her work in seven notable exhibitions over a period 
of seven years is indicative of her being among the small percentage of photographers at the very top 
of the field. The Petitioner emphasizes in h r ri f h h r w rk w xhi I n i h f 
I I in the 2013 exhibition ti tied ''----------=..---=-----.......--===r----~~___. I I' and describes him as "a very top photographer in~-~· I I states in his letter 
that he has participated in exhibitions in France, Germany, the United States, and Japan, and that his 
works have been collected in museums in France, Switzerland, and the National Museum of China. I I photographer I ~ alsq....o,ID¥ided a letter in support of the petition and indicates 
that his works were exhibited at the 2015L_J International Photography Festival along with the 
Petitioner's. He states that his work has been exhibited in more than 15 countries and has been 
collected by more than 40 museums worldwide, including the Museum of Modern Art. We emphasize 
that the Petitioner does not need to establish that she has received the same level of national and 
international recognition as those individuals who provided letters in support of her petition. However, 
their achievements provide some context in evaluating the Petitioner's achievements and the 
recognition she has achieved for them, particularly in light of her claim that she is "in line with top 
tier photographers." 
6 
The inclusion of the Petitioner's work in these festivals is a significant achievement and reflects her 
success in her field. However, the evidence does not establish, for example, that the thousands of 
photographs exhibited at each festival are the work of nationally or internationally acclaimed artists at 
the top of their field, or that all artists whose work is included garner such acclaim. She has received 
some recognition in the media and in the field based on the exhibition of her work at some of these 
festivals, but the record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing her from others in the field 
and does not demonstrate that her achievements are at a level that places her among the small 
percentage at the top of the field. The Petitioner has not established on motion that we misapplied the 
law or USCIS policy in reaching this conclusion based on the evidence she submitted. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our conclusion that the submitted letters from experts 
"did not establish that she has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting 
a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner emphasizes that she does not need to demonstrate that she met the criterion relating to 
original contributions of major significance in order to qualify for the requested classification. She 
also emphasizes that the letters provided are from "very reputable and top artists in the field" who 
testify that she has obtained national acclaim and is at the top of the field. The Petitioner maintains 
that "their testimonies confirmed the Petitioner's career of acclaim have been recognized and should 
be taken into account." 
Our appellate decision did not impose a requirement that she meet an additional criterion in the final 
merits determination. We addressed the evidence submitted in support of the original contributions 
criterion because the Petitioner initially claimed that she could satisfy that criterion. However, we did 
not dismiss the appeal, in whole or in part, based on a finding that she did not satisfy the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Rather, we acknowledged her claim that she had made contributions to the 
field and evaluated those contributions in terms of whether the evidence reflects that they contributed 
to her national or international acclaim. Further, our decision reflects that we reviewed and considered 
each of the submitted expert opinion letters; the Petitioner does not sufficiently explain her assertion 
that we failed to take them into account. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence before us at the time of our decision or that it was based on a 
misapplication of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
In support of her motion to reopen the Petitioner submits new evidence intended to demonstrate that 
she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others 
in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). She has not previously claimed to meet this criterion, but 
maintains that the new evidence demonstrates that her "annua1
1 compe1sation as a photographer is also 
in the top small percentage of the photographer profession in and, when considered together 
7 
with other documentation in the record, supports a conclusion that she is eligible for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner explains that her primary compensation as a photographer is derived from a gallery that 
she runs, the sale of her photography artwork to private collectors, and other photographic projects. 
She states that her 2018 compensation "was at least about RMB2.9 Million Yuan (equivalent to US 
Dollar $437,405)." In support of her claim, she submits excerpts from her 20181 I 
Bank account transaction history, two Artwork Purchase Contracts and one Agreement for Personal 
Entrusted Project, all executed in 2018. This evidence indicates that she sold two series of photographs 
(55 photographs) to a private collector in January 2018 for ¥2.59 million, a series of five photographs 
to the same collector in November 2018 for ¥280,000 and received ¥25,000 for the referenced project. 
She also provides a 2018 Salary Survey Report for the occupation of "Photographer in I I 
I· pub I ished byl I. found at 
The survey reports on a sample size of 135 salaried 
photographers and provides base pay and other compensation information (annual allowances, 
performance pay, project income, personal works sales revenue, etc.). The survey indicates an average 
"annual total of cash pay" of ¥437,152 and a 90th percentile of ¥552,075. The Petitioner also submits 
salary data from Salary Explorer, which indicates average monthly earnings of ¥16,500 and high 
earnings of ¥25,800 for persons working as photographers inl I inclusive of salary, allowances 
and benefits. However, the Petitioner indicates that she is self-employed and does not receive a 
monthly base salary and allowances. Therefore, we cannot conclude that the submitted surveys 
provide a meaningful compensation comparison for evaluating the relative income of a self-employed 
photographer. 
The submitted contracts indicate that the Petitioner sold many pieces from some of her most notable 
photographic series6 to a private collector in 2018 for a unit price of ¥38,960 to ¥56,000, or in the 
range of $5900 to $8450 per photograph. The record does not provide any context for these sales 
prices that would allow us to determine whether this represents significantly high remuneration in 
comparison to other photographers who sell to private collectors. Further, while this new evidence 
of sales to a private collector demonstrates some degree of recognition of her achievements in the 
field, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing her earnings are at a level reflecting that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. Nor does she demonstrate that the 
newly documented sales of her artwork from a single year reflect her sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner also submits new evidence on motion in response to our observation that she did not 
demonstrate that her service as vice chairperson to the I I I I and thel I Women Photographers Association resulted in her national or 
international acclaim as a hoto ra her. The new evidence consists of two articles both titled C=1 
' posted at the websites of the Photographers Association and ,.__ __ ___, ,.._____, ,.__ __ ~ ~-~ 
6 For example, the January 2018 contract indicates that a private collector purchased "30 photographs"""ot.._.l ___ ~ 
series," the series for which the Petitioner received an "Excellent Photographer" award at the 14th ~I --~a~, ~I 
International Photography Festival in 2014. 
8 
The articles list the members of the exhibition's 15-member 
organizing committee by providing their names and the association with which they are connected. 
The articles identi the Petitioner as 
I !,~------~----~----~---·" The Petitioner 
maintains that her service to these associations "caused her being selected as a member of the 
Organizing Committee" for this competition, and, by virtue of the published articles, "caused her 
national acclaim in the field." This new evidence, which is comparable to other evidence that we 
previously considered, is not sufficient to overcome our previous determination that the Petitioner has 
not shown how her association memberships and officer-level roles withl !photography 
associations have contributed significantly to her national or international acclaim as an artist. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's additional evidence on motion does not show her sustained 
national or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. Accordingly, we will deny her motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us, 
nor does her new evidence on motion demonstrate her eligibility for the benefit sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15255769 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a social and racquet sports club, seeks classification for the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability as a squash coach. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as a squash professional and instructor. 1 The record 
shows that the Beneficiary competed as a squash athlete on the ~-------------~ World Tour from 2007 to 2013, and since 2008 has participated as a squash coach in Qatar, South 
Africa, and the United States. The Petitioner indicates that it intends to continue its employment of 
the Beneficiary as a squash coach. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the 
Beneficiary meets five of the evidentiary criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we partially disagree with the Director and find that she meets one of the evidentiary criteria. 
However, we agree that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification, and that she does not qualify as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
1 The record indicates that she is employed pursuant to 0-1 nonimmigrant status, valid through August 31, 2021. 
2 Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond 
to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal or on motion. See Matter of 
Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore 
not consider this newly submitted evidence in our decision. 
2 
The plain language of this criterion sets forth several elements which the Petitioner must establish in 
order to successfully show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. First, it must be shown that she 
received a prize or award. Second, that prize or award must have been given to the Beneficiary for 
her excellence in the field for which she claim eligibility. Third, the Petitioner must show that the 
prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
In his decision, the Director concluded that while the record includes award certificates, it did not 
include sufficient evidence to show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized. He 
also noted that official rankings do not constitute evidence of prizes or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner lists evidence which refers to several of the Beneficiary's accomplishments 
as a squash player, some of which constitute prizes or awards and others which do not. For example, 
this list refers to articles appearing in The Peninsula, a newspaper distributed in Qatar, which mention 
that the Beneficiary will play in upcoming tournaments and is sponsored by local companies, but do 
not mention her receipt of an award. Similarly, selection for a particular team, such as the 
Beneficiary's selection to the University Sport I I team and thel I I I provincial squad, is certainly an accomplishment, but the evidence does not show 
that the certificates given to commemorate these accomplishments are themselves prizes or awards. 3 
However, the evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on the I I provincial squash 
team also shows that that team won a number ofl I tournaments, which later became 
known as thel I Interprovincial Team Championship. The Petitioner submitted certificates 
and photographs which show her membership on the team in 2015, 2018 and 2019, and a letter from 
the Chairman of.__ ________ __,confirms her membership on the team for 13 ears since 
2002. He also writes that the Beneficiary helped the.__ _____ _. team win the six 
times, which is corroborated in part by an article from thesquashsite.com covering the 2019.___~ I I Interprovincials which indicates that the team was victorious seven times in the past decade. 
In addition a 2007 article posted to the website gsport.co.za indicates that I I won the I :1 in 2002 and 2003. Together, this evidence demonstrates that as one of five members of 
the.__ _____ .,.... squad for the Interprovincial Team Championship, the Beneficiary received 
awards for excellence in her field. Further, as the evidence indicates that the Interprovincial Team 
Championship is the top national tournament for squash teams in I l it is a nationally 
recognized award in the field. Therefore, we disagree with the Director and conclude that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that the individual was a 
member of an association within their field of expertise, that membership required outstanding 
3 We note that the Petitioner's brief characterizes the evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on the~I ____ _ 
squad as i I National Team annual selection," but the evidence does not show that she was selected as a 
national team member. In any event, selection for a team does not constitute an award for purposes of this criterion. 
3 
achievements, and that those making the membership determination were themselves national or 
internal experts in their field. 
The Petitioner, in its initial filing as well as in response to the Director's RFE, contended that the 
Beneficiary's membership on several teams and employment with squash clubs allow her to meet this 
criterion. The Director concluded that most of these "are not germane to this criterion," but did not 
provide an explanation for this conclusion. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts these claims, and refers 
to evidence in the record which it claims supports them. Also, for each association membership 
claimed by the Petitioner, it lists as "outstanding achievements" the Beneficiary's selection for 
membership and her subsequent accomplishments as a member. However, this criterion calls for 
evidence of outstanding achievements as a requirement for membership, and therefore focuses on 
achievements judged to be outstanding that occurred prior to acceptance as a member. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's membership in thec=J, this is confirmed in a letter from the association's 
tour director, which also states that she achieved a ranking of 53rd on thec=J World Tour in October 
2011. Another letter, from th~' s chief executive officer, goes into greater detail in describing the ~ World Tour, including several levels of tournaments and membership. Although the letters 
confirm that the Beneficiary was a "world member," competed in the World Championships, and 
reached the quarter final round in three tournaments, they do not describe the requirements for a world 
member or indicate that they are reviewed by recognized squash experts. 
The Benerciary'ls position on teams including the I IInter}rovincial Championship 
squad, the student squash team and the University of1._ ____ ___,women's squash team is 
also supported by reference letters. While we disagree with the Director's conclusion that these 
memberships are "not germane," this evidence does not demonstrate that her membership on these 
teams meets the requirements of this criterion. Regarding the[ I team, a letter from the coach of 
the 2004 team on which the Beneficiary played states that she was one of four women from alll I 
I I universities selected for the team, which toured I I However, the letter does not 
indicate· the criteria for selection or who made the selection, and other letters referenced in the 
Petitioner's brief simply confirm her membership and were not written by those with first-hand 
knowledge. 
Similarly, a letter from the chairman of~....,.....-.,-----,-----,--,--~ corrfirms the Ben,7iary'sll 
membership on thel lteam, and explains that the results from tournaments in the 
league are considered and the five best players selected. As with the evidence regarding the 
team, the letter does not specify any outstanding achievements required for membership, and does not 
indicate that those making the selection for this provincial team are recognized as national or 
international experts. 
The Petitioner also refers to letters pertaining to the Benefici~ployment as a squash coach and 
professional with squash clubs and training facilities such as L__JAcademy and The Country Club I I We first note that the criterion requires evidence of "membership in associations," 
which has a "different meaning than "employment." In addition, while the writers of these letters 
indicate that the Beneficiary was well-qualified to fill these roles due to her experience as a squash 
competitor and coach, they do not establish that they required achievements beyond those of any other 
employer seeking to hire the most qualified job candidate. 
4 
Lastly, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's selections as a coach for the .... l _____ _. I I andl I meet the requirements of this criterion. In support of its claim of 
the Beneficiary's selection as a regional coach byl l the Petitioner refers to a letter from this 
organization's president and chief executive officer dated August 12, 2020 and submitted on appeal. 
However, as previously noted, where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence 
and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence 
offered for the first time on appeal or on motion. 4 
As for the Beneficiary's position as a coach for the0 the record includes a letter from .... l __ _. I lthe organization's former technical secretary, which confirms that she accepted this position 
in 2014 and began recr~iting "t etes to build a team. A lthoughl I notes that she was the first 
female squash coach i which was important in allowing women to learn and play squash in 
the coyn~rv,ke letter does not establish that the Beneficiary's membership or employment as a coach 
for th as based upon outstanding achievements. 
Based upon the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must establish that material was published, that it was 
about the Beneficiary and her work as a squash athlete or coach, and that the medium in which it was 
published is a professional, major trade or other major medium. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted several articles which are about the Beneficiary and her work as a 
squash athlete or coach. Two such articles were published in The Peninsula, datedl I 2008 
an~ l -2009, while a third article about her in this newspaper does not include a date. Other 
articles in the record about the Beneficiary were published in Woman magazine inl I 2010 and 
Abode magazine. While the Petitioner submitted additional articles, the majority of these briefly 
mentioned the Beneficiary in reporting upon squash competitions in which she participated, and thus 
were about the competitions and not her. Also, one article which was posted on the website 
www.gsport.co.za with the tag "Personal Account" does not list an author and appears to have been 
written by the Beneficiary. 
As to whether the media which published articles about the Beneficiary were one of the qualifying 
types under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence from those publications' websites and 
those of the publishing companies. This evidence states that The Peninsula is an English-language 
daily newspaper published and distributed inl I and boasted the "3rd best news website in the 
Middle East in 2017." We note that the evidence does not indicate the source of this claim, and that 
4 See Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
5 
both articles about the Beneficiary were published well before 2017. This evidence is therefore not 
sufficient to establish that The Peninsula qualifies as a major medium. 
Regarding the article published in Woman, the Petitioner submitted information about Gulf Times, 
another English-language newspaper and publishing company inl I from its website. This 
evidence provides information about the history of the company and r,ublication, and includes that 
statement that it "is th~~-----------------~" However, we need not rely 
on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. 
CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on 
the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media.) In 
addition, neither the article nor the evidence regarding the newspaper verifies the claimed relationship 
between it and Woman, the publication in which the article appeared. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided information which indicates that Abode has been in publication since 
2011 and is based inl I However, this evidence does not include circulation figures or other 
data that establishes that Abode qualifies as a major medium. 
After review and for the reasons described above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To successfully establish that an individual meets this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrat that the 
role played for an organization with a distinguished reputation was either leading or critical. If a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that the individual is ( or was) a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. On the other 
hand, if the role is claimed to be critical, the evidence must establish that the individual has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the individual's performance in the role is 
(or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the individual's role, but rather their performance 
in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner first focuses on the Beneficia 's role with the I I inl I A reference letter from=====~::-==-=--==~-=--·L....w_h_o_st-a-te_s_t_h_a_t-sh_e_w_a_s_i......1n 
charge of the Female Multisport Skill Development program at===~-' states that the Beneficiary was 
"a critical part of the development of the first national female squash team id I" She indicates 
that the Beneficia~art of the first team of female coaches ( one of six) hired to develop a sports 
skills program foiL__J girls, which introduced girls to sports. I _ I farther indicates that 
the Beneficiary oversaw the Talent Center where she selected athletes forl Is female sports 
teams, and wrote the squash coach program and trained other staff to implement it. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
The Beneficiary's role atl I is also confirmed in two letters fro~ I a 
highly-ranked squash player froltj lwho trained atl I and a letter fro~ I 
former technical expert for the.__ ________ _. As further evidence of the criticality of the 
Beneficiary's role at I , ) an article written bJ other I I employees notes that its Talent 
Identification Programme is "the foundation of the l's success." Considered together, this 
evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary played a critical role at I I 
As to the reputation ofi I the Petitioner refers to information on its website. Although the website 
boasts that "By 2020, we will be recognized as the world's leading sports academy in the development 
of youth athletes," an~ I writes thatl I "is regarded as a beacon of excellence in sports 
and education," these statements are not sufficient to establish its reputation in the broader field of 
sports training institutions. 
In addition, when responding to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner submitted an 
article posted on the website bleacherreport.com titled ~---~~ Although the article is very compliment .... a-ry-to- ........ _-_ -_ -_ -_:-s_t_a-ti_n_g_t_h_a_t -it-"h_a_s-ri-s-en_t_o_t_h~e 
forefront ofleading sporting centres around the world," we note that the article's author is listed as I I' and that it was previously featured on a blog site. As the source and affiliation of the author 
of this material is not identified, it does not establish that those outside of th~ I organization hold 
it in high regard. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Beneficiary's role in its own organization is a leading one. In his 
decision, the Director noted that the letters from the Petitioner's general manager and director of 
squash did not distinguish the Beneficiary from other coaches in its organization or otherwise show 
her overall influence on the Petitioner's organization. On appeal, the Petitioner highlights certain 
passages in these and other letters. In the case of the general manager's letter, these passages concern 
the importance of hiring "highest world caliber" squash coaches like the Beneficiary to maintain the 
club's reputation, and that she meets this standard through her previous coaching experience. 
Similarly, the letter from the Petitioner's director of squash describes the Beneficiary's qualifications, 
and that she has helped to raise the rankings of junior athletes who train at the club. She also describes 
the Beneficiary as "an incredible asset to our. .. coaching team" and states that junior players are 
benefitting from her expertise. However, neither letter indicates that she holds a leadership position 
in the Petitioner's organization, but is instead a member of its coaching team. As to whether the 
Beneficiary plays a critical role for the Petitioner, these letters indicate that she has helped junior 
players to raise their rankings, but do not demonstrate that any specific contributions she made were 
of significant importance to the Petitioner's overall operations. Although the employment of coaches 
in general is important to a racquet club and facility such as the Petitioner, this evidence does not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's performance as a coach was critical to its success. 
In addition, the Petitioner asserts on afrpeal that the Beneficiary also plays a leading role forl I 
as a regional coach for thel region. However, as previously noted, we will not consider new 
evidence on appeal where the Petitioner has previously been afforded an opportunity to submit 
evidence. In addition, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
7 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the evidence did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
salary of $79,194 in 2019 was high when compared to other coaches. He specifically focused on the 
salary data provided from the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) 
and the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), and noted that they did not show the salaries earned by top 
squash coaches inl I or the United States. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional 
evidence obtained from these sources, as well as from the CareerOneStop website. Because evidence 
from these sources was previously submitted and is publicly available, we will consider this new 
evidence. 
As the evidence reflects the salary paid to the Beneficiary by the Petitioner in 2019, the appropriate 
basis for comparison is with other coaches in I I in that year. While there is a slight 
disparity in the average wage reported from these sources, with a range between $48,090 and $58,400, 
the 75th and 90th percentile wages are consistently shown as $73,640 and $100,730, respectively. 
Although this evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary's 2019 salary was above average, it is not 
sufficient to establish that it was high in relation to other coaches inl I Therefore, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) states that if the evidentiary criteria do not readily apply to 
the individual's occupation, comparable evidence may be submitted to establish eligibility. On appeal, 
the Petitioner refers to articles in the record about the role of sports coaches in general, as well as 
letters concerning the impact of the Beneficiary's coaching on her students, and concludes that their 
accomplishments serve as evidence of her "rating/standing in the field." However, the regulation 
allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's 
occupation. 6 A petitioner should explain why it has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least 
three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence it has included is 
"comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown why it cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that fulfills at least three is not evidence 
that a squash coach could not do so. As discussed, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary meets 
five of the ten evidentiary criteria. In addition, the Petitioner did not show that coaches cannot present 
evidence relating to the other criteria. As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary is 
eligible to meet additional criteria through the submission of comparable evidence. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 Id. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary enjoys the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13904080 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art museum, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a curator, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a I I art museum, has employed the Beneficiary in the endowed 
position of I !Associate Curator for I I Art since 2014 and 
seeks to continue her employment in this role. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the 
Beneficiary's eligibility under six of these ten criteria. 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfies the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), respectively, and the record supports this conclusion. The 
Petitioner has provided evidence of the Beneficiary's authorship of books, book chapters, and 
scholarly articles published in professional publications, as well as evidence of her participation as a 
judge of the work of others in the field, specifically as a member of doctoral panels, and award and 
fellowship committees. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked or failed to properly weigh evidence 
relating to published materials about the Beneficiary, her original contributions to her field, the display 
of her work at exhibitions or showcases, and her leading or critical role with its organization. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), (vii) and (viii). The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary satisfies at 
least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
We conclude that the record establishes that the Beneficiary satisfies the leading or critical roles 
criterion based on her role with the Petitioner, which has established itsl I 
,.__ ______ __. museums in the United States. The Director determined that the Petitioner's 
evidence was insufficient because it relied, in part, on letters from experts who work outside the 
organization that attested to the critical nature of the work the Beneficiary performs for the Petitioner. 
2 
However, both the initial petition and the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) were accompanied by supporting letters from high-level employees of its organization who 
described the Beneficiary's position and her performance in that role in considerable detail and were 
sufficient to establish that she performs in a leading or critical role consistent with the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner described the Beneficiary's responsibilities, the impact of 
her role on the museum, and submitted supporting evidence, including its annual report and critical 
reviews in major media, which highlight that the exhibitions, research, educational activities, and other 
projects for which she is responsible ~-------------------~ I I) are of significant importance to the organization as a whole. 
The Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria I isted at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), therefore, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence 
submitted in support of the remaining claimed criteria, in the context of the final merits determination 
below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
conclude that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary has bachelor's degrees in art history and modern languages, 
and a master's de ree in visual anthro ology. She later obtained a master of arts focused on the Arts 
of from the~--~----~ at the University otc=J 
. , where she also received her doctorate degree in 2007. She completed 
two post-doctoral research fellowships at the University ofl I 
I I between 2008 and 2014, during which time she also provided exhibition curatorial 
support for I I art exhibitions for museums in Switzerland, Germany, Bel ium Scotland and 
England. As noted, since, 2014, the Beneficia!Y has served in the position of.___ ___ .--__ __, I !Associate Curator for I IArt in the Petitioner's Department of Arts I I .__~ 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary's critical role with the Petitioner, one otl I art 
museums, is a high profile position that has earned her national and international acclaim in her field 
and recognition as one of the top curators and scholars in~------~· The exhibitions 
she has curated for the Petitioner have earned positive critical reviews in major U.S. media such as 
The New Yorker, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, as well as in international 
publications. In addition, the Beneficiary and her work have consistently been the subject of 
interviews and articles in media publications throughout her tenure with the Petitioner. For example, 
articles about the Beneficiary and her work have appeared in professional publications included Art 
Asia Pacific magazine, in a publication of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, in mainstream 
media publications, and in Cultural Survival Quarterly, which is focused on the preservation of the 
cultures of the indigenous people. She has also been invited to provide her expertise inl I 
3 
I lart to film and video projects made for television in New Zealand, for other museums, and for 
.=I ==~~I. an educational partner ofl I 
In addition, the record reflects that, as a result of her acclaimed work and recognition in her area of 
expertise, and in connection with her high-profile role with the Petitioner, the Beneficiary is frequently 
invited to serve as a panelist, lecturer and note address s eaker at events, conferences and symposia 
hosted by prominent institutions such as University olle e) I University, the I I Museum the Arts Council o~ I the , University of I I. th of Arts and th In 2019, the Beneficiary 
was invited by the,__-~-------------- to serve as a visiting faculty 
member for its prestigious.___ ___________ ~_..,.,...., and she has participated as a 
judge of the work of others in her field by serving on doctoral panels and award and fellowship 
committees. 
In addition to her highly visible role as a curator, the record reflects that the Beneficiary remains 
especially active in publication of scholarly research in her field. She has authored a considerable 
number of articles that were published in distinguished professional journals and has authored books 
and book chapters as well as contributing to the Petitioner's major exhibition bulletins and catalogs. 
The Petitioner has also documented her membership in the.___ ____________ ___, 
where she and other leaders of the organization coordinated three 
international conferences held in Canada, New Zealand and Australia, as well as panel events held 
throughout North America. 
Finally, the Petitioner has submitted several detailed letters from experts in the Beneficiary's field who 
discuss and provide context to her contributions and achievements and the scope of the recognition 
she has received for them . .___ _______ ___,of I !University explains that the 
Beneficiary "brings a singular perspective and set of curatorial skills that have enabled her to expand 
the profile ofl lat [the Petitioner's museum]," and describes her as "an innovator whose 
ri orous and creative curatorial work has expanded the accepted canon of world art histo to include 
r------,.. ____ _Jarts." I I Director of the UniversityL-------1------...._J 
.___ __ __.Art Collection, indicates "as a fellow curator and academic specializing in.___ __ __.art 
in the United States, I can state with confidence that [the Petitioner] is one of the foremost experts in 
the world in our field" and "has opened up the world ofl lart to viewers in the United States." 
She mentions the Beneficiary's "expansion of [the Petitioner's] contemporary.___ ______ __. 
art, and her creation of important opportunities fo art and artists, who she has elevated to 
an increasingly visible position within the wider art world.",__ __ ~ describes in further detail the 
influence of the Beneficiary's curatorial approach in their shared field, and concludes by stating that 
the Petitioner's "significant scholarly and curatorial achievements in the field ofl I I I art have been revolutionary and continue to inspire the museum community at an international 
level." 
.___ _____ ___, Director of the University,__ ______ ~ Research Unit, states that he 
"can affirm without question that [the Beneficiary] is a world-renowned expert" on the art of the 
.___ _____ ____. region and asserts that "an art history professional must be at the very top of their 
field to even work for [the Petitioner]." I J also emphasizes the Petitioner's "sole 
responsibility for a wide range of curatorial duties that relate to the care of the hugely significant 
4 
collection of art at the Petitioner's museum], including her involvement in an on oin 
~----~project." ,___ _______ __. Di rector Emeritus ofL_ __ -r----7-__J 
discusses the Beneficiary's curatorial vision for updates to the Petitioner's.____~ galleries, 
explaining that the renovation dergns "wlll have an enormous impact internationally and stand to 
influence museum installations of art across the world." He describes the renovation as "a 
once-in-a-generation undertaking, and [the Beneficiary] was the only choice to lead this project due 
to her world-renowned expertise in the art ofl I' I I, former Vice President of the 
Arts for thd O l highlights the Beneficiary's achievements at the 
Petitioner's museum, noting her "commitment to advancing and evolvinr her fitd and describing 
her as "the leading voice of her generation in the highly specialized area of art in the museum 
industry." 
Based on the foregoing letters and others not discussed here, the evidence establishes that the 
Beneficiary's critical role with the Petitioner and her related contributions to the museum field, art 
curation, and scholarship in~-----~art have garnered her sustained acclaim and placed 
her among the small percentage at the top of a field in which the Petitioner maintains a prominent 
position as a leading institution. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that the Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record 
supports a finding that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of her field of endeavor 
with sustained national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). It has also demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Beneficiary's sustained national and international acclaim and that her achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, the record reflects that the Beneficiary intends 
to continue working in her area of expertise and that her admission will benefit prospectively the 
United States. Therefore, she qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15277004 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a production professional in the television and motion picture industry, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 2045(h)(3) . He reached the same conclusion after granting the Petitioner's combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner now appeals the Director's decision on her combined 
motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a production professional who has worked on television and motion picture products 
in a variety of roles. She states that she intends to continue to work in this area in the United States.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that she does not meet the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 2 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The record shows that the Petitioner has been employed in the television and motion picture industry in the United States 
for several years pursuant to 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
2 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (vi) relating to 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, participation as a judge of the work of others, and authorship of 
published scholarly articles, she does not contest the Director's decision relating to these criteria on appeal or otherwise 
refer to them in her appeal brief. We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 
l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
The Petitioner asserts that she is a member of three associations in her field which require outstanding 
achievements: 
I The Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG­
AFTRA) 
I The Producers Guild of America (PGA) 
I The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers 
Regarding her membership in SAG-AFTRA, she submitted a letter dated April 9, 2016 from this 
association which stated that her employment "as al ~ I I' qualified her for membership. In addition, she submitted an email and associated 
application which concerned a project she was producing which required SAG-AFTRA approval. 
While these documents show that she was eligible for, and invited to, SAG-AFTRA membership, and 
has submitted paperwork to the association regarding a movie project, they do not serve to establish 
that she is a member. 
In addition, even if we were to conclude that the Petitioner had established her membership in SAG­
AFTRA, the evidence does not demonstrate that this association requires outstanding achievements of 
its members. Notably, the letter inviting her to membership clearly states that she qualified based 
upon her work as a background performer, and does not mention any further requirements. The 
Petitioner has not asserted or submitted evidence to demonstrate that as a requirement for membership, 
such a performance is considered to be an outstanding achievement among others in her field. In 
addition, while the Petitioner notes on appeal that in the invitation letter, SAG-AFTRA is referred to 
as "the most distinguished performer's union in the world," and that membership "is a significant rite 
of passage and proof of your professional status," neither of these statements reflect its membership 
requirements. Further, she does not dispute the Director's characterization of the association's 
membership requirements, which were taken from its website. 
Regarding the other two associations to which the Petitioner claims membership, she refers on appeal 
to letters submitted in support of previous 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions on her behalf from each 
of these associations. Both letters indicate that the associations reviewed her qualifications and 
express the opinion that she is qualified for the requested nonimmigrant visa classification. However, 
neither letter refers to her membership in the associations, and the record does not include other 
evidence to support the Petitioner's assertion. Also, the record does not include information regarding 
the membership requirements for these associations. Therefore, we agree with the Director and 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director noted in his decision on the Petitioner's motion that some of the evidence submitted 
under this criterion was illegible, that other evidence consisted only of links to websites, and that the 
record lacked evidence to show that articles about the Petitioner and her work in the field were 
published in a qualifying medium under this criterion. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that all of the website links she provided are active, and again lists 
links to several websites, including two radio or podcast interviews. However, we note that it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). This includes 
the submission of evidence into the record to support that eligibility. Here, the weblinks themselves 
are not published material about the Petitioner, and the record does not include transcripts of the 
podcasts, or copies of the articles, by which we are able to determine whether she was interviewed 
about her work in the field of movie and television production. 
An interview of the Petitioner that is supported by evidence is shown by a letter fro~ I 
I )who states that she conducted an interview for her show lwhich was aired on 
I I TV on I I 2019 and thereafter. The letter indicates that she interviewed the 
Petitioner about her work in the field, and is accompanied by two screenshots. It also states tha~ I I ~Vis a national television channel, but does not provide viewership data for the channel, or the 
show for which the interview was conducted, let alone comparative statistics for other channels and 
shows inl l Although this evidence is sufficient to establish that this interview was about 
the Petitioner and her work as a producer, it does not demonstrate that the interview was published in 
a major medium. 
Additional evidence submitted in support of this criterion includes copies of newspaper articles which 
are about the Petitioner and her work as a production professional. These include the following: 
I 
I 
I ' I I ~I ________.l 2019 .-==============r-1,,-W-e~eke~n-d-A-rg_u_s...,.., I --..-I -20-1~9 
~----~l"Voice,I 12016 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner includes distribution statistics for.___ _______ ~ stating 
that it is the newspaper of.___ _____ ____. and that 302,000 copies per week are distributed. In 
addition, we note that in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), she stated that this 
periodical's daily total readership was 33,085, and also included information regarding the other two 
publications. However, the Petitioner did not indicate the source of this information, or provide 
documentary evidence to support its accuracy. Again, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility through the submission of documentary evidence to support her assertions. 
In addition, in order to show that a periodical or other publication qualifies as a major medium, 
evidence should establish that its circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to the circulation 
statistics of other media.3 Here, the Petitioner has not provided comparative circulation data to 
establish that the periodicals in which material about her was published qualify as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
4 
Other evidence includes an article in~ I, Illinois newspaper which is about filming for a movie 
on which the Petitioner worked that does not mention her, and an undated interview article in Grazia 
magazine in which only one of ten questions focuses on her work as a production professional. This 
material is not about the Petitioner, and the record lacks evidence that either publication qualifies as a 
major medium. 
Based on the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
In his decision, the Director focused on the multiple reference letters submitted by the Petitioner, but 
found that they were insufficient to establish that she had made an original contribution of major 
significance. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director's RFE indicated that she did not meet 
this criterion because the evidence did not contain scholarly articles, and also refers to the language in 
the Director's decision regarding "scholarly literature search websites." We note, however, that these 
statements were made when discussing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which pertains to 
the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles in her field. The Petitioner does not dispute the 
Director's findings regarding her contributions to the field of movie and television production, and 
therefore does not establish that she meets this criterion.4 In addition, she does not indicate that the 
paper she references on appeal is a contribution of major significance to her field. As such, we 
conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I confirming that she contributed in a 
variety of roles to productions which were displayed at arts festivals. She also submitted evidence 
showing that she was credited in films which were screened at film festivals, includin\:JI I 
at the Cannes International Film Festival and others. We agree with the Director that she meets this 
criterion. 
4 The Petitioner does not specifically indicate that she is challenging the Director's decision relating to her authorship of 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) on appeal, and we therefore consider this issue to be waived. However, 
because she appears to assert that claim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we briefly note that the evidence she presented 
earlier and on appeal does not meet the requirements of that criterion. Specifically, although she created a Google Scholar 
profile which lists a paper, I , t· and submitted a partial copy of this paper, this 
evidence does not indicate that the paper was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media 
as required. 
5 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence that shows that her work has been displayed at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. However, we find that she does not satisfy the criteria relating to 
membership in an association requiring outstanding achievements, published material about her, and 
contributions of major significance. Although she also claims eligibility for an additional criteria on 
appeal, relating to a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach that 
additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve that issue.5 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 55822191 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is extremely well-known" among charitable organizations in the United 
States, Israel, Europe and the countries of the former Soviet Union for his fundraising, consultinf and 
project management work with the I I and the I The 
Petitioner's resume reflects that, after graduating from I I University with degrees in geography 
and African history, he worked for the from 2002 until 2015, initially as a 
representative in Ukraine and Later, he served as the donor relations and development 
coordinator the ,__ ____ ___,s organizational headquarters in I I as its country 
representative in Ukraine, as the regional director for Central Asia (based in Uzbekistan), and, most 
recently, as the Director General of the I I Russia representative office. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has been self Tmployd as a consultant in Florida since 2016, and has 
n n will be working as a fundraiser and consultant for the southeast office of thel I 
American Section inl I as the director of ·I J for the non-profit 
and as a consultant and fund raiser for I I an organization that ,.__-------,--.,........,.,,------,---' supports underprivileged youth and single parent families. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has claimed to meet three of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets the three claimed 
criteria and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets only one criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore has not established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Director acknowledged that the evidence establishes that the Petitioner is highly experienced as a 
fundraiser, consultant and project manager and has made contributions in his field. However, he 
determined that the record lacks evidence of the impact or influence of those contributions and does 
not establish their "major significance." 
On appeal, counsel asserts that the Petitioner's contributions exceed the "major significance" standard 
required by this criterion, emphasizing that "his contributions were life saving and life altering." He 
further explains: 
[The Petitioner] made and continues to make significant contributions of major 
si nificance in his field of endeavor -the very special and unique field ofl I, the 
,___ __________ ~ ... The evidence provided ... is very clear about what 
he did to bring,____~ people and especially youn eo le who, for various reasons 
lost their parents and support of their countries . In many instances he 
was the only one who would be working t,..__ __ _.these kids fro~ ~ and 
war-torn nations to thP.I r ... His contribution only can be measured in 
the human I ives he saved and the futures that he was able to secure for the persecuted 
and unfortunate. 
We recognize that the nature of the work the Petitioner has performed for th~~-------~ 
and other organizations has a significant impact on the lives of the individuals who receive sup
1port for
1 their,___ _____ __. and other humanitarian assistance. The Petitioner's work as an 
consultant, fundraiser and project director is well documented in the record through reference letters 
and other evidence.1 For example,,___ ____ __. a Senior Representative of thel I I I in North America, confirms that the Petitioner "took a leading role in numerous 
international projects, among them rescue operation in war turn Gear~ helping to save lives of 
man~ ltamilies fleeing of war mess and bringing them safely tol__Jon special flights."D 
1 While we do not discuss all of the submitted reference letters and letters of gratitude submitted, we have reviewed and 
considered each one. 
3 
I I also recogni~Petitioner's successful involvement in "efforts to raise funds and 
humanitarian support fotl__J people around the world, who seek assistance and humanitarian help." 
In addition, he credits the Petitioner's initiation and organization of projects in numerous countries as 
a regional director tori I and praises his focus, determination, and dedication to 
humanitarian values. 
I I president of thd I discusses the organization'g I project 
and states that the Petitioner "remains the main driving force and the principal leader of this extremely 
special endeavor aiming to help secure a better future for underprivileged youth in distressed areas of 
the world." He praises the Petitioner's "enthusiasm, leadership, rich experience, world-wide 
connections and other talents that make our organization capable of helping and saving the most 
underprivileged and giving them the gift of a better future." 
This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that his contributions have significantly impacted or 
influenced the field in which he works. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance in the field and his impaJ-<-1--l-<.U.... .................... .....,.ent work add value. 2 The 
letters submitted here are all comparable t sand s letter in content and do 
not discuss how the Petitioner's projects with .___ ________ ____.and other organizations 
have impacted the field, rather than individuals who have received assistance from his employers. The 
record documents the Petitioner's contributions to fulfilling .___ _____ ____.s mission and we 
recognize his critical role with the organization below, but it does not demonstrate the significance or 
influence of his work in the broader field. 
In the appellate brief, counsel asserts that the Petitioner "was the first individual that was able to 
establish rules and procedures related tol lr.hildren from dilapidated countries of Former Soviet 
Union I I' noting "it was not done before in modern history, after WWII." However, he does 
not elaborate and his statement that the Petitioner was responsible for establishing the referenced "rules 
and procedures" is not adequately supported by other evidence in the record, or by evidence that such 
rules and procedures were adopted or implemented by other organizations in the field or otherwise 
recognized as influential or majorly significant in the field. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record 
with independent evidence. 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading.3 Regarding a 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icyman ual/HTM L/Po I icy Manual. htm I 
3 Id. at 10. 
4 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 4 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had submitted evidence related to his roles at tha._ _ ____, I land the,___ ______ __, However, the Director determined that the evidence 
was insufficient to establish that he performed in leading or critical roles for either organization. He 
further found that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that either organization has a distinguished 
reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "made an error by not reading all the 
documents submitted." 
While we agree with the Director that the record does not establish that the,___ ______ _, a 
Florida non-profit company established in 2015, enjoys a distinguished reputation~ the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of thP.I J I 
In addition, letters from persons familiar with his work with th~._ ____ ____,~ and other evidence 
in the record, provide sufficient explanation of the Petitioner's performance in senior roles to establish 
that those roles have been critical to the outcome of the organization's activities in several targeted 
regions. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In a cover letter provided in support of the petition, the Petitioner indicates that "[a]s a professional 
fund raiser and activist [the Petitioner] was [a] highly paid professional averaging hundreds of 
thousands of dollars for his job throu h the ears." His initial evidence in support of this criterion 
included an undated letter from the,___.======-=======lsummarizinq the Petitioner's terms of 
service as a senior representative of the,___ _______ ~ inl I Russia from August 
2009 until August 2015.5 According to this letter, his remuneration included monthly gross wages of 
$6000, as well as monthly "representative fees," compensation for rent expenses, an "education fund," 
and "children education funding at the place of service." 
The Petitioner provided evidence that the private school his children attended inl Jbilled 
thel lfor their 2014-2015 school year tuition and fees. However, he did not 
document his actual salary earnings or total remuneration received during his period of employment 
for the I I in_ I The Petitioner also submitted data on "Average Russian 
NGO salaries" from SimplyHired, which indicates an average salary of $25,000 but states that 
"average Russian NGO salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and 
benefits." 
The Petitioner's initial evidence also included his 2017 IRS Form W-2 froml t=J 
U.S.-based consulting company) indicating that he was paid $12,000 in wages. He provided 
4 Id. 
5 According to the Petitioner's resume and the employment history he provided on his concurrently filed 1-485, Application 
to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, he worked for th~ 0 I as its Regional Director in I I from January 2014 until August 2015. 
5 
~----~~s 2017 corporate federal tax return, which reflects his receipt of $13,389 in ordinary 
business income based on his 50% ownership interest in the company. He did not provide comparative 
evidence to demonstrate that he earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to 
others working in his occupation in the United States during that year. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), counsel for the Petitioner stated: 
[The Petitioner] was dispatched and worked in mostly Former Soviet Union States ... 
For his work he was paid significant amount of money, compared to local population 
and also he was provided with transportation, housing allowance, private school tuition 
for his children and other perks attributed to his position. It is not easy to compare his 
salary to the local population due to uniqueness of his job asl I consultant, but due 
to deteriorating post-Soviet State financial system, he was making 10 to 20 times what 
any local person in the same or similar position would make. He was very well paid. 
The Petitioner re-submitted the above-referenced letter from confirming 
the financial terms of service for his posting in~ ___ ___.and the private school tuition invoice 
from 2014. On appeal, counsel repeats the same passage from his letter in response to the RFE, already 
quoted above. The appeal does not otherwise address this criterion. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to provide appropriate evidence in support of this criterion and we agree 
with the Director's determination that the evidence submitted here did not meet that burden. In order 
to establish that they have commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration, a 
petitioner should provide documentary evidence of their actual earnings. The undated letter setting 
forth the Petitioner's terms of payment from the I O , I does not adequately 
document the Petitioner's salary and other remuneration earned during his period of employment in 
Russia. 
In addition, while the Petitioner provided data regarding "average Russian NGO salaries" from 
SimplyHired, the publisher of this data acknowledges that such salaries "can vary greatly" and does 
not provide information regarding high salaries in the field as a point of comparison. It is not sufficient 
for the Petitioner to provide evidence that his salary was "above average." Although we acknowledge 
counsel's repeated assertion that the Petitioner earned "10 to 20 times what any local person ... would 
make" we note that the assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. at 
534 n.2 (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
Therefore, even if the Petitioner had adequately documented his total earnings from 2014 or 2015, 
additional comparative data would be needed to establish that he commanded a high salary or 
significantly high total remuneration. 
As noted, the Petitioner also documented his earnings in the United States for 2017, but he has neither 
claimed nor submitted comparative salary data to establish that he commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in that year. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15898883 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a multimedia artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did 
not establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification . The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he seeks to 
enter the United States to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an engineer and multimedia artist, is the Jroducer/creator of an on line animated video 
series titled I , which can be viewed on his I I I I lnstagram TV and YouTube channels. The record reflects that the Petitioner has a 
bachelor's degree in telecommunications engineering from a I I 1miversity and was 
employed by a U.S. engineering firm at the time he filed the petition. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
I (iii), Published materials in major media; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original artistic contributions of major significance; and 
I (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits a short statement asserting that the previously submitted evidence was 
"underestimated" and that he believes he satisfies at least three of the previously claimed criteria. He 
specifically addresses the awards, published materials, original contributions, and display criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(i), (iii), (v) and (vii), respectively. With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the record reflects that the Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding 
to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) and, on appeal, he does not contest the Director's 
2 
determination that he did not meet the criterion. Therefore, we consider that issue to be waived and 
will not further address it.1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established, as 
required, that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has been the recipient of awards 
or prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The record reflects the Petitioner's receipt of the following awards: 
I 2016 "Producer and Creator of Animated Videos of the Year" -
I 2019 Animated Video Producer of the Year -
I 2019 Animated Videos Producer with International Prominence -granted by .... I ___ _, 
I 2020 Animated Videos Producer with International Prominence -granted bY,_I __ ___. 
The Director concluded that the awarding entities mentioned above grant awards to celebrities across 
many fields (including sports, arts, political, social and entrepreneurial fields) and are "not specific to 
the Petitioner's field." The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the 
awards "were recognized beyond the context where these specific certificates were presented." 
Upon review, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on 
his receipt of the I awards in 2019 and 2020. The fact that the awards are issued across 
various artistic and entertainment fields does not disqualify them from meeting this criterion, as it is 
evident that the specific recognition th~ Petitioner received was for work in his field. Further, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence from both~--~ and international media reflecting recognition of 
these awards beyond the context of the awards ceremony itself. This evidence included an article from I I publicationl I that includes a photograph of the Petitioner with his award trophy 
1 See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009); Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 
n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/pol i cymanu al/HTML/Pol icyM anual. htm I. 
3 
from the 202d I Florida award ceremony, and evidence that other winners of th~ 0 
LJawards have received media recognition associated with their awards. Accordingly, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several print and online articles in support 
of this criterion but determined that none of the published materials satisfied all requirements set forth 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director determined that some of the articles did not feature the 
Petitioner as the subject of the story and the evidence did not indicate that the articles were published 
in major media or other qualifying publications. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he provided 
evidence that he and his work have been recognized by "important digital media." 
The Petitioner submitted articles about him and relating to his work as the creator of I I I I which were published by madmimi.com, panorama.com.ve, gentedehoy.com and the print 
publication I I We agree with the Director's determination that the record does not 
include evidence demonstrating that these are professional or major trade publications or other major 
media.3 
The Petitioner's evidence also includes an online article titled I I pub I ished by I I media outlet======-=.-T-he-art_i_cl_e-is_a_n_i_n-te-rv-ie_w_w-it_Jh 
the Petitioner about his background and his popular animated video channel, it identifies the author, 
and it includes the require title and date of publication and English translation. Further, the Petitioner 
submitted sufficient evidence of I I media rankings to establish thatl I qualifies as 
a major medium. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on this 
evidence. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, art1st1c, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The 
Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, which included sixteen 
letters of reference and screenshots from the Petitioner's lnstagram profile, supports that he has made 
original contributions, but did not demonstrate the major significance of those contributions in his 
field. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
I wanted to clarify that several letters were sent from professors and political activists 
explaining the petitioner's contribution, and the officer concluded that they are not 
related to the petitioner's field, I wanted to clarify that the content of the animated 
videos is political and socio-economic and is in that context where his great 
contribution is, that is why this method of expanding the message is where the 
contribution lies and it seems that the officer did not interpret it that way. 
In a letter in support of the petition, the Petitioner emphasized that his work "has made an impression 
on distinguished individuals in both academic and broadcasting communities in I I its 
international diaspora and populations across the Western Hemisphere." He explained that he "has 
written, produced and published consistent cartoons and other media that are culturally and politically 
aware of the realities inl I and wider Latin American life," and that are "significant for their 
dark humor and powerful messages as well as their bold ... critique of thel I I t The Petitioner noted that he had achieved "a significant following on social media of 
over 65,000 followers on his page '---------~ 
The submitted reference letters recognize the originality of the Petitioner's work but do not explain 
the remarkable influence or impact of this work in his field.4 .___ ______ __., al I 
broadcaster, comedian, and author, recognizes the Petitioner's "talent and special ability" as well as 
his "courage by showing the current political reality I I in a satiric way." He also states 
that the Petitioner has made an "artistic contribution tol I society, showing the truth in a 
different and very original style." I lstates that the Petitioner's animated videos 
"show not only in country's political arena but also the social phenomena of immigration and the 
difficulties that brings to people to adapt to new cultures." He further notes that the Petitioner's work 
"generates such an influence that inspired me and my production team to compose a song for his 
show on lnstagram TV" which is copyrighted and available on major music platforms. He concludes 
that the Petitioner "has made a very significant contribution in the areas of politics, humor and 
animated videos." 
.___ ______ __.btates in his letter that he appreciates "the production quality" of the Petitioner's 
work and "his talent to make these animated videos that cover in depth political and social issues of 
our times in a very original way." He notes that the Petitioner "contributed greatly not only to the 
arts but also to humor, with his style to make these animated videos in the socio-political arena, 
showing the current social issues in a sarcastic way that has never been seen before." A letter from 
broadcaster and voice actor.___ ______ __.similarly praises the professional production value 
of the Petitioner's work. He states that the Petitioner is "creating new ways to divulge a political 
message thanks to his extraordinary ability to make these animated videos," and states that the 
Petitioner has made "a great contribution" to the arts as well as through his ability to "deliver a 
humorous political message in this difficult era tori ~ Graphic artist and illustrator I ]states that the Petitioner's video series "is a new way of protesting and spreading the 
message of repressedl ~ and "must be counted as a contribution to both the world of 
4 While we address only some of the 16 letters provided, we have reviewed and considering each one in evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
5 
animation and the global defense of freedom." While the submitted letters from professionals in the 
broadcast and media fields praise the production quality of the Petitioner's animated video series and 
the Petitioner's novel approach to the expression of social and political commentary, they do not 
explain with specificity how his work has been influential or impactful in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided reference letters from university professors who address the political, 
social, and cultural elements of his work. I I states that she has analyzed the 
content of the Petitioner's videos and praises "the courage of this young man who takes the sad and 
touching reality of the social and political eventsl las an inspiration, ... regardless of the 
consequences." She asserts that the Petitioner's artistic contribution "could be of extreme use for the 
free and democratic expression of a country that recognizes, respects and values human talent." D I I notes the difficulty of keeping students and the general public engaged in political, 
economic and sociocultural topics. He praises the Petitioner for his "unique" method of cultural 
expression and states that his "contribution is of outmost significance because he introduces his 
viewers to the graphic language significative elements of the Latin American culture and 
idiosyncrasy." ~-----~ states that the Petitioner has created "a new form of Artistic 
Peaceful Protest," and praises him for "adapting and finding new methods to allowl Ito 
be informed and heard." He further states that the Petitioner's "unique approach to the spread of 
freedom of expression is of great significance" and that he has made a "contribution tol I 
and the world at large." 
The letters discussed above, and other letters submitted in support of this criterion, do not contain 
detailed, probative information that explain how the Petitioner's original contributions have already 
had an impact of major significance in the field. While they praise his artistic talents and original 
approach to socio-political messaging, the influence and significance of the Petitioner's contributions 
are explained in very general terms or described in terms of their potential to guide or influence the 
work of others in the future. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are 
of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
The Petitioner also points to media coverage of his work, his awards, and his lnstagram following as 
evidence that is relevant to this criterion. The Petitioner's awards and published material about him 
have been considered under the appropriate criteria in the analysis above. The record does not 
sufficiently establish the link between that evidence and the significance of any original contributions 
he has made to the field of video animation or to the social and political discourse in his home country. 
The media articles reflect that he has garnered some recognition based on both the popularity and 
subject matter of his video series, they do not demonstrate the major significance of his contributions 
to the field. Further, although the Petitioner has received awards as a video and animation producer, 
the record does not reflect that such awards are granted based on a recipient's original contributions 
of major significance in a given field. Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner indicates that his 
following on lnstagram is indicative of the significance of his contributions, but he does not provide 
any comparative evidence or information that supports that claim. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. 
6 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner has made contributions of major significance in his field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his presentation at a February 2020 
conference hosted b in Ohio. He provided a letter froml I 
Chief O eratin Officer of who states that the Petitioner "gave the lecture 
L-------....------,--------,...J' during which he "showcased his animated videos about the 
practical, daily lives in America." I !explained thaU 7 
"created this major conference to bridge the newly exposed consumer gap between thel ~ 
communities and current businesses interacting with the Hispanic and Latino peoples in Ohio." She 
described the conference attendees as representatives ofl O I companies, as well as 
members of the local Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and local Hispanic entrepreneurs representing 
their establishments. The Petitioner did not provide any other documentation related to the 
conference, such as promotional materials, a conference program, or additional evidence related to 
his own presentation. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that it was not clear that his lecture 
and presentation at this conference, as described inl Is letter, satisfies the plain language 
of this criterion. The Director advised the Petitioner that he could submit additional evidence, such 
as materials created to promote and publicize the exhibition or showcase of his work, and/or evidence 
that the venue where his work was displayed was an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
Although the Petitioner submitted a timely response to the RFE, his response did not include any 
additional evidence related to this criterion, nor did he address the criterion in the accompanying 
support letter. Accordingly, the Director concluded that he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner appears to address this criterion in his statement on appeal. He states that he "gave a 
conference" and asserts that "the officer did not take it into account, even alleging arguments that are 
not in accordance with what the law establishes." However, as noted, both the RFE and the denial 
decision reflect that the Director considered the initial evidence related to the~----~ 
conference but found it insufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The 
Petitioner has not articulated why he believes the Director's determination was "not in accordance" 
with the applicable regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with the Director's 
determination that additional evidence would be needed to demonstrate that the Petitioner's lecture 
at this conference qualifies as an artistic exhibition or showcase of his work and therefore conclude 
that he did not meet this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
As explained above, we conclude that the Petitioner satisfies only two criteria, related to awards and 
published materials. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). As such, the Petitioner cannot satisfy the 
7 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and is not eligible for 
this classification. Because the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the appeal, we decline to 
reach and hereby reserve the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
that he is coming to the United States to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" as 
required under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. 7 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record reflects that the Petitioner has recently 
earned some recognition for his online video series, but such recognition does not rise to the level of 
sustained national or international acclaim in the multimedia or video animation field. In fact, in his 
statement in support of the appeal, he emphasizes that "[i]t is important to clarify that the petitioner 
is not in the top of the field but he is unique in his field." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach.) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15820657 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mus1c1an, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner a percussionist, describes himself as "one of I I Latin America's most 
respected musicians." Early in his career, he was a founding member of thel I band I I 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has accompanied various Latin American artists in the recording 
studio and in live performances. He highlights his work on two albums b that 
were nominated for Latin Grammy Awards in the Album" category and his 
role as the lead percussionist and band coordinator for singer.___ _____ ____. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can meet five of these ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
I (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iii), Published materials in major media; 
I (iv), Judging the work of others in the same field or an allied field; 
I (vii), Display of work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
I (vii), Leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these evidentiary criteria, relating to judging 
the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display of his work at artistic showcases or 
exhibitions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner has served as a 
member of the judging panel in three music competitions and has performed live au I 
festivals as a founding member ofl I Accordingly, the evidence supports the Director's 
conclusion that he has satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he established by a preponderance of the evidence that he meets 
the three remaining claimed criteria and is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude, for the reasons discussed below, 
that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner provided evidence that he is a voting member of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts 
and Sciences (LARAS), as well as a copy of the LARAS membership application, information regarding 
membership from the LARAS website, and excerpts from the bylaws of the National Academy of 
Recording Arts & Sciences, Inc. 
The information from the LARAS website states that the "voting member" classification is for "creative 
or technical professionals" involved in recording music. Prospective voting members are required to 
provide evidence of at least six credits (songs), supported by verifiable documentation of release within 
the last five years. There is also a requirement that at least 51% of the recordings are in the Spanish or 
Portuguese language. Applicants are encouraged to "send in as much information as possible" including 
their biographies and any media about them, and LARAS "reserves the Right of Admission and approves 
membership according to the evaluation of the materials submitted." We note that the Petitioner did not 
submit the portion of the organization's bylaws that addresses membership types, the application for 
membership, or the academy's processes or standards for granting voting membership. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that LARAS requires outstanding 
achievements as an essential condition for membership, or that the association relies on recognized 
national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership. The Petitioner 
argues that voting membership is the highest level of membership in LARAS, that voting members must 
meet "stringent requirements," and that "common activity in the music industry alone does not bestow 
voting membership." He also emphasizes on appeal that LARAS is an internationally recognized 
organization with a distinguished reputation, and that its bylaws establish that some of the most senior 
trustees of the academy serve on its membership committee. 
While the record reflects that prospective voting members of LARAS must meet a minimum threshold 
of six verifiable song credits within a five year period, the evidence submitted does not support a 
conclusion that this level of professional activity in the recording industry is intrinsically an "outstanding 
achievement" or that LARAS views it in this light. Further, while the submitted excerpts from the 
academy's bylaws indicate that high-ranking trustees of the recording academy serve on the membership 
committee, the full composition of that committee is not described in the record. Finally, as noted, the 
Petitioner did not submit all relevant portions of the academy's bylaws, including those portions that 
address membership requirements and the membership application review process. While it appears that 
there is a discretionary component to granting voting membership, the record does not support a 
3 
conclusion that only those individuals who provide evidence of "outstanding achievements" above and 
beyond the six required song credits are eligible for such membership. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that voting membership in LARAS requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included copies of four print articles from thel I newspapers 
El Tiempo and El Norte. All four articles are about the Petitioner and relate to his work as a musician and 
three of them include the required title, date, and author of the material.1 
The Petitioner initially claimed that both newspapers qualify as major media inl I He submitted 
a "Media Factsheet Detail" published by NewBase, which identifies El Tiempo as an "eastern regional 
newspaper! I ... with local and national news" and indicates that it changed from a daily to a 
weekly circulation in 2018. The same document indicates that the newspaper has a daily (Monday­
Saturday) circulation of 75,000 copies based on "unaudited figures." With respect to El Norte, the 
supporting evidence included an excerpt from the publication's media kit indicating an "ordinary print 
run" of 122,135 copies. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that additional 
evidence would be required to demonstrate that either newspaper is a qualifying major media publication. 
In a letter submitted in response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that his work "has received significant 
national and international media coverage" and that his performances "have been discussed at length and 
lauded by major music magazines." However, he did not submit additional evidence showing that he and 
his work has been covered by major music magazines or international media. The only article he 
specifically addressed in the response letter is the article from El Tiempo, which was accompanied by the 
same "Media Factsheet Detail" obtained from NewBase.2 The Petitioner also submitted a website traffic 
overview for El Tiempo (eltiempo.com.ve) from SimilarWeb, indicating that it has a country ranking of 
667 inl land a ranking of 13,214 in the "news and media" category. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish that El Tiempo is a 
major media publication or other qualifying publication. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner provided past unaudited circulation figures for the newspaper from NewBase but 
determined that this evidence was not probative, noting that he did not provide a basis for comparison 
of those figures to other publications. 
1 The fourth article, which was published in the May 17, 2013 edition of El Norte, does not include a byline identifying 
the author. 
2 The record reflects that, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner re-submitted the articles from El Norte in support of the 
leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but he did not pursue his initial claim that these articles 
satisfied the published materials criterion, nor does he do so on appeal. Based on the initial evidence submitted, we 
conclude that he did not establish that El Norte qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that NewBase is "an independent media company associated with 
Publicitas Media," and provides additional background information from the websites of these 
companies in support of his claim that "the readership/circulation figures for El Tiempo" are from "an 
objective, independent and credible source." He also claims that he has submitted articles from "trade 
journals" in the music industry, but as noted, the evidence submitted in support of this criterion was 
solely from the newspapers El Tiempo and El Norte. 
The Petitioner does not address the primary deficiency observed by the Director, which is the lack of 
evidence comparing the circulation figures of these publications to those of other similar publications. 
With respect to the probative value of the unaudited daily circulation figures provided by NewBase, 
we note that the "Media Factsheet Detail" included daily figures for a newspaper that was being 
published on a weekly basis at the time NewBase issued its factsheet. In addition to observing this 
apparent discrepancy, we agree with the Director that the newspaper circulation figures alone are 
insufficient to establish that a given publication qualifies as major media in its market.3 Here, the 
information from NewBase also identifies El Tiempo as a "regional newspaper" and comparative 
rankings or circulation data would be needed to establish that it can be classified as major media in 
I I 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the published materials 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on services he has provided to music groups 
and other music industry organizations that have a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching 
duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence 
must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 4 
On appeal, the Petitioner specifically emphasizes the services he has provided to singers! I I andl I as a member of their studio and tourin bands, his,_r_o-le_a_s_a__,n 
artist endorser for percussion instrument manufacturer and in-ear monitor 
manufacturer.__ ____ _. and his role as a founding member of the band .__ _ ____. 
First, he addresses his role as "a Musician for the,__ _____________ ____,.' noting 
that the leading or critical nature of this role "is documented with the receipt of two Latin Grammy 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
nominations for his role in two separate music products with~------~' The Petitioner 
maintains that if his role was not leading or critical, he would not have received these Latin Grammy 
nominations. 
As noted, the Petitioner performed on two albums by I I that were nominated for Latin Grammy 
Awards in thel !Album" category. Translated certificates from LARAS show 
the Petitioner's name "in recognition of his participation as a musician" on the nominated recordings. 
Album credits for one of the nominated albums indicate that the Petitioner played "minor percussion and 
Congas inl I" Acknowledgment of his participation as a musician on a nominated album does 
not lead to a conclusion that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, nor has he established 
that either the albums orl I a singer-songwriter, qualify as an "organization or establishment." 
The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner has performed withl I as a member of his 
touring band, but overall, the evidence related to his services tol I does not establish how his role 
as one of the singer's percussionists is a leading role or one that is critical to the outcome of the singer's 
activities. 
The Petitioner also claims that he has served in "a lead/critical role" for music ~------...,.....r....:..:..==:.=, 
organization," stating that as one of the singer's "main musicians" he "has been instrumental to.__ _ ____. I ~ in both recorded productions and I ive concerts." Initially, he pointed to the published materials 
about him in the record, noting that all four of the submitted articles from El Tiempo and El Norte mention 
his role as percussionist and/or band coordinator forL I a Puerto Rican salsa singer. He also 
submitted a 2016 Billboard magazine article about] f s record-setting success on the I !Albums chart as evidence of his reputation in the industry. 
Subsequently, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a letter from .... l ____ ____, 
who describes the Petitioner as "a fundamental piece in my artistic career since 2009, as coordinator of 
my orchestra in I I and as a principal percussionist in the presentations of my orchestra in 
I I' He also discusses the Petitioner's role as coordinator for a 20101 I tour, and notes 
that, in subsequent years, he has worked "in different concerts both inl land internationally." 
He describes the Petitioner as "the professional responsible for all the work of coordination, conducting 
of rehearsals and musical performance as percussionist inl I and other countries." I I c=J concludes by stating that the Petitioner "has been a key figure in my organization for almost a 
decade." 
The record establishes thatl I enjoys a distinguished reputation as a recording artist. 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the singer's touring band or orchestra is an "organization or 
establishment." Further, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner, as a band coordinator and 
percussionist for certain live performances and tours, has been critical to the outcome of I ts 
touring activities or overall success. The record does not contain, for example, articles aboutl I 
c=Jthat mention his band members generally or the Petitioner specifically. While! ts 
letter establishes that the Petitioner contributed to the concerts in which he participated, tickets for those 
concerts appear to have sold on the strength of the singer's existing reputation, rather than on the 
Petitioner's role in coordinating the band's preparation for the performances and his services as a 
percussionist. 
6 
As noted, the Petitioner also submits evidence relating to his endorsement agreements with two 
manufacturers of musical instruments and equipment. Under the terms of his agreement with percussion 
instrument manufacturer! ~ the company agreed to assist the Petitioner with his 
instrument needs by providing significant discounts on its products, to promote him as al ~ndorser 
and artist on its website and social media, and to provide him with an artist pass at trade shows where it 
exhibits its products. The Petitioner, in turn, agreed to us~ !products, to promotel , I on his 
website and social media accounts, and to keeij I updated on his career and performance schedule. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's biography appears onl Is website and includes evidence 
that he attended the 2018 National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM) show as an "Exhibitor 
Artist" for~-----~ The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml ts Artist Relations 
Manager, who confirms the company's relationship with him. The company representative does not, 
however, explain how being a 'I I" involves the Petitioner's performance in a role that is 
leading or critical to the organization. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter confirming that he is a participant in I Is Artist 
Endorsement Program. As a participant, he receives discounted customized! I discounts 
on the company's other products, and dedicated support and repair service. He agreed to credit or mention 
I I whenever possible and to tag the company on social media, to provide two photographs of 
himself I r, to provide two quotes about the products, and to grantl lthe 
permission to use his name, quotes and likeness in its promotional materials. The Petitioner's name 
appears alongside more than 700 other groups and musicians on thel !website's "Artist Page" and 
he emphasizes the company's distinguished reputation and the fact that many of the listed artists are well 
known figures in the music industry. However, the record does not support his claim that participation 
inl Is artist endorsement program involves serving in a leading or critical role for the company, 
nor has he established that he has personally contributed in a way that is of significant importance to 
the outcome of the organization's activities. 
Finally, the Petitioner has provided evidence relating to his role in thel lensemblel I We 
find sufficient evidence in the record to establish that he held a critical role in the group as one of the 
founding members who helped shape its sound. However, the Petitioner has not established thatl I 
enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner states that the group's productions and performances have been covered by major media 
publications that "praised the group's unique style and discussed its success in the field." He also 
emphasizes that the group "embarked on several national tours aroundl I" and [erformed at the 
"most prestigious venues." Finally, he claims that one of the co-founders o~ I I, is 
"one of the most accomplished musicians in I I noting that he later worked on a Grammy 
nominated album byl I 
Most of the information regarding the group's tourin~ and recording activities, and its related critical and 
commercial achievements, is provided in a letter froni I The record corroborates the information 
he provides aboutl Is performances atl !festivals inl land, as noted, we 
determined that these activities satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating to the display 
of the Petitioner's work at artistic showcases. 
7 
,___ _ _____.I states that the band's first album.I I achieved a gold record based on 5000 
units sold in was distributed in several countries, and had five songs receive strong radio play 
in .___ __ _.and internationally. However, his statements regarding the band's sales and radio play are 
not supported by other evidence in the record. The Petitioner has submitted some promotional materials 
and media articles that promoted the band's early festival performances, but in some cases has not 
provided copies of the articles from their original source. Accordingly, there is insufficient evidence to 
establish that the band received major media attention. 
The term "distinguished" necessarily implies a comparison. However, the record does not contain 
evidence that would allow a comparison betweerl Is critical or commercial achievements relative 
to similar artists. The Petitioner has not established, for instance, that the level or type of media coverage 
it received set the band apart from other artists in its genre, nor documented that it achieved significant 
sales or critical acclaim. Overall, the record does not contain sufficient supporting documentation to 
show tha~ lhas a distinguished reputation, marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence.5 
Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
V. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
8 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, while the 
Petitioner has worked with acclaimed artists, he has not shown that he himself has earned the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or established a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record reflects that the Petitioner enjoys a successful career as a respected professional 
musician and has earned various forms of recognition in his industry. However, the evidence does not 
support a determination he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24528840 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 27, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an "athletic coach/director" seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized 
award, or in the alternative, that he had met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The Director 
further determined the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer 
player or coach and that he had risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated that he was an international soccer defender who played with the Columbia 
national soccer team for eleven years, and professional international soccer teams in Brazil and 
Columbia. The Petitioner further stated that he was selected as the Columbia ________ 
in 2007 by a Columbian newspaper El Tiempo and emphasized his expertise in being the Columbian 
national team's designated I from 2003 to 2008. The Petitioner also submitted a letter 
from the _____ Soccer League explaining that he had "acted as a coach for different 
tournaments since 2016," noting that he managed the under 17 national interclub and under 20B 
national interclub in 2018. In addition, the letter stated that the Petitioner had also been the head coach 
of the ________ in 2016-17 in the "under 17 category." The Petitioner indicated that 
he planned to continue the growth of soccer in the United States and its ability to compete against 
other nations in international soccer competition by opening a soccer training academy in Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria, agreeing that he had performed 
in a leading or critical role with the Columbian national soccer team. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion with respect to him 
receiving nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards or major media publishing material 
related to his work and. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). The Director also concluded that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer player or coach, or that 
he had risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
We agree with the Director that the record supports the Petitioner's satisfaction of the leading or 
critical role criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the two evidentiary criteria relating to major media 
publishing material about his work and him having received a nationally recognized award. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we do not agree with these assertions. Since these 
determinations are dispositive of the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's 
arguments with respect to whether he had sustained acclaim as either a soccer player or coach and had 
2 
risen to the top of his field of endeavor as a soccer coach. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 
(1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is 
unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Documentation of the noncitizen 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
We must first determine if the Petitioner was the recipient of prizes or awards. The description of this 
type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on his receipt of the awards or 
prizes, as opposed to his employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. Next, we consider whether he 
received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. In doing so, we consider whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field, including the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international 
significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and number of awardees or prize recipients, as well 
as any limitations on competitors ( an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for 
example, may have little national or international significance). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director indicated that the Petitioner 
did not submit any explanation of the award he received from El Tiempo, nor supporting 
documentation about the newspaper that awarded it. Here, the Petitioner emphasizes that he was 
awarded the Columbian I laward in 2007 by El Tiempo, a Columbian newspaper. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the I I award he received from El Tiempo in 2007 represented a lesser nationally recognized 
prize or award in his field of endeavor. For example, the Petitioner did not discuss the criteria used to 
grant the award, nor did he provide any explanation of the award, only indicating that he received it. 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not explain or document why the award was considered a nationally 
recognized award in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner's mere receipt of a recognition from a 
newspaper as ______ is not alone sufficient to establish that it is a lesser nationally 
recognized prize or award without further explanation and evidence. For instance, as noted by the 
Director, the Petitioner submitted little evidence to establish the reputation of El Tiempo, its 
circulation, or why a soccer award it granted would be consider nationally recognized. 
As a result, the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the non citizen's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To establish this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that there was published material about him 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author 
3 
of the material. 1 If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether 
professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not sufficiently demonstrate that the submitted articles 
were published in professional or major trade publications or major media. The Director pointed to 
the notice of intent to deny and the request for circulation statistics related to the publications, 
including data to compare these publications with the circulation of others, noting that the Petitioner 
did not submit this requested evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to two articles it asserts were published in major Columbian 
publications. First, the Petitioner em hasizes an article from 2019 from the Columbian 
publication La Opinion titled ____________________ The article 
reflected the Petitioner being interviewed about his career with the Columbian national team and his 
experience playing with professional soccer clubs. In addition, the Petitioner points to another 2020 
article in El Espectador, including another interview where he discussed a goal he scored against I I that put the Columbian team in position to compete for a spot in the I _ 2010 
Sudafrica. The Petitioner further states on appeal that the "stature and influence" of El Espectador in 
Columbia is noted by the Ministry of Foreign Relationships and provides a link to this organization's 
website. 
Although we acknowledge that the articles discussed by the Petitioner on appeal discuss him 
specifically and some of his accomplishments with the Columbian national team and other soccer 
clubs in Columbia and Brazil, he has submitted insufficient evidence to establish that either article 
was published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. As discussed by the 
Director in the denial, the Petitioner did not submit circulation statistics or data to compare the 
circulation of the publications with others to establish that they represent major media.2 For instance, 
with respect to the La Opinion article, the Petitioner only indicated in the translated article that it had 
"about 147,000 results." However, it is not clear from the translation what this number represents, 
and the Petitioner otherwise submits no information as to the circulation of La Opinion, nor how its 
circulation compares to other publications. 
In the case of the El Espectador article discussing the Petitioner, there is insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the views this article received, its circulation online, or the overall circulation of the 
newspaper to demonstrate it was major media. We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted a 
translation giving background on El Spectador stating that it was a "newspaper of national 
circulation," "considered by Le Monde one of the 8 best newspapers in the world" in 1994, and that 
in 2015 its circulation "reached 1,843,604 readers." However, it is not clear from the translated 
background information on El Spectador where this information and circulation data originated from 
to verify its credibility. The asserted circulation information from 1994 and 2015 is not 
contemporaneous with the date of the submitted article as to be probative in demonstrating its 
circulation in 2000. Further, the Petitioner provided no comparison of this claimed circulation with 
other publications to establish that it qualified as major media. 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
2 We note that neither article was asserted as a major professional or trade publication, but as newspapers with national 
and local circulation in Columbia. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner also points to the website of the Colombian Registry of Foreign Relationships 
and states that this confirms the "stature and influence" of El Spectador. However, the website address 
provided by the Petitioner only reflects the home page for the cited Columbian government agency 
and provides no data or statistics on the circulation of El Spectador, nor how its circulation compares 
to that of other publications in Columbia. 3 Therefore, without sufficient supporting evidence, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that professional or major trade publications or other major media 
published articles discussing him. 
We further observe that the documentary evidence reflects published material about the Petitioner 
relating to his work as an athlete, but not in his field of endeavor as a coach. The plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]ublished material about the [noncitizen] in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen's] work in 
the field for which classification is sought." The Petitioner intends to enter the United States as a 
soccer coach. Therefore, the published material as a competitor is not within the Petitioner's field of 
endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that 
competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner 
does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that the Petitioner has had any published material about 
him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three criteria. Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 The Petitioner provided the website cancilleria.gov.co. Last visited March 27, 2023. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 24, 25-26; see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 27, 2024 In Re: 29998274 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive cyclist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by 
meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates his self-employment as a competitive cyclist from January 2004 until 
September 2022. 1 The record contains documentation of his competitive results in road and track 
racing between 2004 and 2011. 2 He provides that he intends to continue his professional career as a 
competitive cyclist in the United States and "begin my transition to coaching." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement; therefore, he must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner submitted evidence related to four of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) and concluded he did not satisfy any of them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that he meets the same four 
evidentiary criteria he previously claimed.3 For the reasons discussed below, we find that the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 See the Petitioner's Fonn 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. 
2 The record shows that the Russian Cycling Federation, the national governing body of sports cycling in Russia, is a 
member of the European Cycling Union continental confederation, which is a member of the International Cycling Union 
(UCI), the world governing body for the sport. 
3 We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not raised or contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not 
raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter o/O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter olR-A-M-, 
25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) first determines whether the published material 
was related to the person and the person's specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just 
about the person's employer and the employer's work or another organization and that organization's 
work. 5 USCIS then determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major 
trade publication, or other major media publication. 6 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted three articles published by the online sports website 
Cyclingnews.com in July and August 2007. The article titled 1s 
about the results of the 2007 held in Bulgaria. The article 
mentions that the Petitioner won the race ahead of Ignas Konovalovas from Lithuania and Latvian 
Normunds Lasis. It notes that Daniel Martin had to abandon the race. It also provides that the recent 
competitive successes of Mr. Konovalovas, including in the European Championships in Germany, 
have resulted in a contract with Credit Agricole. 
A second article titled mentions that the Petitioner won 
the 2007 and discusses the individual results of the members of 
thee=]team. A third article, titled indicates that the Petitioner, Ian Stannard, 
and Marcel Beima are "young, promising riders from the lesser ranks" selected by thel ITeam 
to "race with the pros until the end of the season." It also mentions five riders selected by the 
professional teams Landbouwkrediet-Tonissteiner and Saunier Duval-Prodir. 
Although the Petitioner's name 
is mentioned in the above articles published on Cyclingnews.com, the 
articles are about the overall results of the 2007 U23 Road European Championship and the selection 
of apprentice bike racers by several professional cycling teams; they are not about the Petitioner. 
Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
about a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish 
that Cyclingnews.com is a major trade publication or other major media. The Petitioner's initial 
submission provided screenshots from www.similarweb.com showing a global rank of 18,109, a 
country rank of 11,674, and category rank of 9. 7 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
significance or relevance of these numbers to establish the major status of the website. 8 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted an article titled published in Na 
Vyrost, which mentions the Petitioner's name among a list of young sports scholarship recipients in 
the Iregion. The article does not identify the author or the date of the material as required by 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
5 Id. 
6 Id. 
7 The Petitioner's RFE response included updated screens hots from www.similarweb.com showing a global rank of 10,628, 
a country rank of 6,745, and category rank of 5. 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that in evaluating whether a submitted publication 
is a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
3 
the regulation, and is not accompanied by evidence that this publication qualifies as major media. 
Rather, this publication appears to be a local or regional publication. 9 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show he meets every element of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 1°For the reasons outlined below, a review ofthe record 
does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he 
meets this criterion. 
In a personal statement provided within his initial submission, the Petitioner indicated that "as an 
expert in the field, I have been selected to judge the work of others as a Referee for the elite Cycling 
competitions." The Petitioner submitted his "Sport Referee's Record Book" from the Ministry of 
Sport of Russian Federation and issued by the Regional Sports Public Organization Federation of 
Cycling in ______ indicating his assignment as a "referee" on 24 occasions between 
September 2018 and December 2021. The above evidence does not explain the role of a sport cycling 
referee. 
In his request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner sought to use his 
experience as a referee, but noted that the record did not contain sufficient information to establish 
that he acted as a judge consistent with the plain language of this regulatory criterion, rather than as a 
referee, "ensuring fair play according to the rules." In response to the RFE, counsel for the Petitioner 
claimed that the Petitioner's Sport Referee's Record Book "lists the specific competitions or events 
where he actually performed the judging." Counsel further asserted that a cycling competition judge 
is the same position as a cycling "commissaire," and provided the 2019-2020 UCI Track Events 
Training Guide for Commissaires as "documentation of the duties ... of Commissaires for different 
types of races." However, counsel's unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., 
Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a briet: motion, or Notice of Appeal 
are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
Again, this regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as the judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specialization. The Petitioner has relied solely on his Sport 
Referee's Record Book, and did not submit corroborating evidence, such as his event-specific judging 
credentials, or official records from one or more events in which he claims he served as a judge, to 
show that he actually participated as a judge for cycling competitions. Here, the Petitioner's evidence 
does not reflect the duties of a cycling referee to demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or 
9 Although the Petitioner provides additional articles on appeal, because he was put on notice and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide this evidence. we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) 
(requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) 
( declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice ofthe required evidence 
and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
10 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed to enforcing the mies of a match and ensuring 
sportsmanlike competition. We agree with the Director's determination that the submitted Sport 
Referee's Record Book is insufficient to show that serving as a cycling "referee" is consistent with 
participating as a judge of the work of others. 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner argues that "[i]n reality, [the Petitioner] was a judge" who was 
"the final decider in who won the race," and provides other instances in which he claims the Petitioner 
performed "the prerogatives of the judge, not a referee." Again, counsel's assertions do not constitute 
evidence. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. at 51. In addition, the Petitioner argues that there was "an 
unfortunate mistake in translation where the interpreter used a 'referee' as opposed to the proper use 
-'judge.'" On appeal he offers new documentation, including a retranslation ofthe above sport record 
book. Although the Petitioner provides additional argument and documentation on appeal, as 
previously stated we will not consider new eligibility claims or evidence for the first time on appeal. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(11); Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 766. 11 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criteria relating to published material in certain media 
and judging. Although the Petitioner also claims eligibility for the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), we need not reach these 
additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 12 Nevertheless, 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F.Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
11 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) requires that any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS 
shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, 
and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. In 
addition to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), the Petitioner was notified by USCIS instructions to Form 1-140 and 
the Director's RFE of the requirements regarding the translations of foreign language documents. 
12 SeeINSv. Bagarnasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
5 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has garnered national 
or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing him among the upper echelon in his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25295809 
Motion of Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sound engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We subsequently dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts to be proved and be supported by affidavits or other evidence . 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, 
and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of 
the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the benefit sought. The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a new statement; an article about his patent and a co . py of the pate nt; 
an employment contract evidencing his position as senior sound director for the 2019 I I and information about that event; the charter of the ______ and minutes 
regarding the Petitioner's acceptance as a member; and, a letter from the television channel 
confirming the employment of the Petitioner as a senior sound director with information about the 
channel. 
We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. 
Instead, we interpret "new facts" to mean those that are relevant to the issues raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes within the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
Although most of the documents the Petitioner submits on motion were not previously submitted, they 
do not introduce new facts since the same information presented in these documents was submitted with 
the initial petition, just in different documents. The evidence on motion further confirms evidence 
previously submitted and is not considered new facts. 
The only documentation submitted on motion that was not previously discussed is the Petitioner's 
membership in the I However, the Petitioner does not explain the relevance of this 
documentation in his motion brief The Petitioner never claimed eligibility under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their 
members. As it relates to a motion to reopen, the requirement for "new facts" pertains to new information 
associated with the eligibility claims a filing party presented in their most recent filing, in this case, on 
appeal. A motion to reopen should not act as a vehicle to introduce new eligibility claims for the first 
time. These two concepts (new facts versus new eligibility claims) are distinct and are not 
interchangeable. New eligibility assertions advanced for the first time to an administrative appellate body 
are not before it properly. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021) (refusing to consider 
an appellant's humanitarian claims presented for the first time on appeal). 
The Petitioner therefore has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. Specifically, he has 
not offered new facts associated with his previous eligibility claims that are also supported by 
evidence. The result of this shortcoming is that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should 
reopen the proceedings. 
Regarding the motion to reconsider, we stress again that to establish merit for reconsideration of our 
latest decision, the petitioner must both state the reasons why the petitioner believes the most recent 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy; and it must also specifically cite laws, 
regulations, precedent decisions, and/or binding policies it believes we misapplied in our prior 
decision. 
The current motion brief states that the prior decision lacks thorough analysis and demanded excessive 
proof of eligibility that goes beyond the standard of proof required by the regulations. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to support these claims. The Petitioner cannot meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions; the motion must 
demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
2 
(BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
Accordingly, even if the Petitioner had argued that we failed to give the evidence full consideration, 
we would still deny the motion to reconsider because the argument would lack the specificity required 
for a motion to reconsider. 
Accordingly, although we acknowledge the Petitioner submits a brief, we determine the Petitioner 
does not directly address the conclusions we reached in our immediate prior decision or provide 
reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. Likewise, the brief in support of the current motion 
also lacks any cogent argument as to how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the 
prior motion to reconsider. 
On motion, the Petitioner also contends we erred in our decision by waiving issues the Petitioner did 
not discuss on appeal. Our review of the record reveals although the Petitioner collectively asserted 
his claims before the Director, he failed to offer all of those same claims in his appeal. When he failed 
to assert any previous claims within his appeal, he abandoned or waived those claims. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not provide any evidence on appeal regarding the waived issues. See Matter of 
Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496,496 n.l (BIA 2018) (concluding that an issue is deemed waived when it is 
not challenged). This means we will not factor those abandoned claims into this or any future motion 
decision based on this particular petition. He is, however, eligible to reintroduce these claims in a 
future petition filing (i.e., a new Form I-140). 
In light of the above, we conclude that this motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider and must therefore be dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
In this matter, the Petitioner has not overcome our prior decision or shown proper cause to reopen or 
reconsider this matter. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not 
met that burden. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 28, 2024 In Re: 30254224 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify herself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative , at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish 
the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further concluded that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), specifically addressing the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v)-(vi), (viii)­
(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v)-(vi), (viii)-(ix). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies 
any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii)-(iv), (vii), or (x), thereby waiving those potential 
criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 
554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). The Petitioner does not overcome the 
Director's denial for the reasons discussed below. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 's] membership in associations in thefieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner is an active member in the 
Russian Society of Plastic Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgeons (the RSPRAS), and that the record 
contains information related to that society. The Director summarized membership criteria and noted 
that neither general nor "honorary" membership requires outstanding achievements. Rather, in 
relevant part, "honorary" membership is based on "a simple majority of votes" to determine whether 
the society considers the recipient "deserving of special honor for a significant contribution." The 
Director further noted that the record does not establish the qualifications of the voters who award 
"honorary" membership, nor does it establish whether a "significant contribution," contemplated by 
the society's voters, may be indicative of the "outstanding achievements" contemplated by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Director further noted that the record does not establish 
the Petitioner is an "honorary" member. The Director concluded that, because the record does not 
establish that the society requires outstanding achievements of their members, "honorary" or 
otherwise, the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she "submitted with her [request for evidence (RFE)] response 
her Honorary Membership Certificate which states that it 'may be a person whom the Organization 
considers deserving a special honor for a significant contribution."' We note that, on appeal, the 
Petitioner does not specifically assert that she believes her membership in the RSPRAS-or anything 
else-satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record does not support the Petitioner's statements on appeal and, even if it did, it would not 
establish that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) has been satisfied. The document submitted in 
response to the Director's RFE that the Petitioner quotes on appeal is an English copy of the RSPRAS 
Charter, dated March 15, 1994, as amended both on February 5, 1999, and again in 2007-not a 
membership certificate. Specifically, general provision 3.7.1.1 of the Charter provides, in relevant 
part, that an honorary member "may be a person whom the Organization considers deserving of a 
special honor for a significant contribution." In contrast, the undated, English copy of the Petitioner's 
RSPRAS membership certificate, which she submitted at the time she filed the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Workers, not in response to the Director's RFE, states that the Petitioner "is an active 
member of Russian Society of Plastic Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgeons," not that she is an 
honorary member or that the RSPRAS considers her "deserving a special honor for a significant 
contribution." 
Moreover, even if the record established that the Petitioner is an honorary member of the RSPRAS, 
which it does not, as the Director explained, the record does not establish whether a "significant 
contribution" contemplated by the RSPRAS for honorary membership may be equivalent to the 
"outstanding achievements" contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As the 
Director further noted, the record does not establish that the individuals who vote on candidates for 
honorary RSPRAS membership are the type of "recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields" contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Because the record does not establish the Petitioner has a membership in an association in the field for 
which classification is sought, which requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields, the record does not satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence that the [noncitizen] has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains letters written by 
I The Director summarized the content of the letters; however, the Director 
observed that they do not establish whether the role the Petitioner has performed for any particular 
organization or establishment was leading or critical or, furthermore, whether those organizations or 
establishments have a distinguished reputation. Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does 
not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the extent of the Petitioner's assertions regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5 h 3 vm is the followin : "As stated in the initial filing, [the Petitioner] played a critical 
role for 
3 I 
The record contains a recommendation letter written byl Ihowever, the letter does not 
reference it does not establish whether the __________ 
or any other organization or establishment where the Petitioner has worked-has a distinguished 
reputation, and it does not establish whether the Petitioner performed a leading or critical role for any 
such organization or establishment. Instead, the letter asserts, in relevant part, "in 2017, I was trained 
by [the Petitioner]." The letter further opines, "I knew that [the Petitioner] was a professional in her 
area," and it relays gratitude "for the precious knowledge I got." The letter does not, however, 
establish which organization or establishment may have employed the Petitioner in 2017 when she 
trained! I how that unspecified organization or establishment may have a distinguished 
reputation, and how the Petitioner's role, apparently as a "trainer," may have been leading or critical 
to that organization or establishment. 
The record also contains two other letters of recommendation addressed by the Director, written by 
Neither of the letters are dated. The first letter, submitted at the time of filing, 
notes in relevant part that the Petitioner "took on a very challenging role of my assistant at a 
complicated circular blepharoplasty surgery combined with second chin liposuction and circular face­
lift" in 2018. However, the letter does not elaborate on how the Petitioner's role of "assistant," 
apparently for a single medical procedure, qualifies as the type of leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Moreover, even if the letter established how the Petitioner's role of "assistant" for a single medical 
procedure qualified as a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment, which it does not, 
the letter does not establish how that organization or establishment-apparently the I I 
Russia, where ______ ___,asserted he worked at the time 
he wrote the letter-has the type of distinguished reputation contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The second letter, this time identifying the writer as also is undated; 
however, the Petitioner submitted it in her March 2023 response to the Director's October 2022 RFE. 
The second letter, apparently written sometime between the 2021 filing date and the 2023 RFE 
response, indicates that I I employer at the unspecified time of 
writing is the which the Petitioner erroneously asserts on appeal was 
"stated in the initial filing." The second letter provides directly conflicting statements. Specifically, 
the letter asserts, "With this letter, I would like to emphasize the critical role of [the Petitioner] for our 
clinic, and in general for the cosmetology industry." However, the letter also asserts, "Today [the 
Petitioner] assists me in carrying out operations." The letter does not reconcile how the Petitioner's 
role as assistant may be leading or critical for the I I I lor "for the cosmetology industry." Moreover, even if the letter provided consistent 
information regarding how the Petitioner's role as an assistant may be leading or critical, it does not 
establish whether the has the type of distinguished reputation 
contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Because the record does not establish that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, it does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
4 
Evidence that the [noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration/or services, in relation to others in thefield. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains copies of the Petitioner's bank statements, 
currency conversions, and publications relating to occupational income. However, the Director noted 
that, unlike evidence such as paystubs from a particular employer, the bank statements "did not 
describe, or provide evidence to show, which sources of income in the statements were remuneration 
for work as a cosmetologist." The Director also noted that the publications reflect "average salaries 
for Russia but [they do not] break down remuneration based on years of experience, specific 
geographic area, and level of seniority" to better articulate how the Petitioner's salary or remuneration 
for services may compare in relation to others in the field. Based on those evidentiary deficiencies, 
the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that "her bank statements ... list names of her clients and amounts 
she received for cosmetology services," and that the bank statements total an annual income of 
"4,922,027 RUB which equals to 410,168 RUB monthly." The Petitioner further asserts on appeal 
that the record establishes that "the monthly salary of [ c ]osmetologists working in Moscow region in 
Russia is from 50,000 to 180,000." 
We first note that the letters from discussed above, indicate that the 
Petitioner works as an assistant "in the city ofl IRussia." We take administrative notice 
that I is approximately 1,100 miles south of Moscow. The record does not establish how 
the monthly salary of cosmetologists working in the Moscow region informs what the salary of 
cosmetologists working approximately 1,100 miles away inl Imay be. Furthermore, as 
the Director noted, the generalized information in the record does not inform how salaries may differ 
based on years of experience, level of seniority, and other variables that may contextualize salaries or 
other remuneration. 
We next note that the record does not contain copies of the Petitioner's bank statements translated in 
English. The record contains copies of documents that appear to bear dates and other numbers; 
however, the text of those documents is written in a language other than English. The regulations 
specifically require, "Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall be 
accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and 
accurate." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Rather than submitting a full English language translation of the 
documents in question, the Petitioner submitted a half-page certification stating, in relevant part, that 
"according to [the Petitioner's] bank statement for the period from October 5, 2019[,] to October 4, 
2020, the bank account received funds in the amount of RUB 4,922,027.38, which is USD 63,028.9." 
Contrary to the Petitioner's statement on appeal, the certification does not purport that the bank 
statements "list names of [the Petitioner's] clients and amounts she received for cosmetology 
services." In summation, the record does not establish what income the Petitioner may have received 
for services in the relevant field, nor does it establish how that income may relate to others in the field, 
in the location where the record indicates the Petitioner works, with other relevant factors. 
Because the record does not establish whether the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, it does not satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
5 
We need not determine whether the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(vi) 
because, even if it did, the record would not satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)-(vi). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results 
they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner has not established she received a one-time achievement or, in the alternative, evidence 
that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 28, 2024 In Re: 30542380 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
she satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, but the Director determined the 
Petitioner fulfilled only two: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the contributions of major 
significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that she satisfies the contributions of major 
significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 1 The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the basis 
for denial of the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third 
initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that she has 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
1 The record includes documentation indicatincr that the Petitioner's work in Cell relating to ________________________ has provoked widespread commentary 
on its importance from others in the immunology field and has been highly cited relative to others' work in her field. In 
addition, the Petitioner provided detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature of her original contribution 
and its major significance to the field. Accordingly, we agree with the Petitioner's argument on appeal that she meets the 
requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In addition, we note that the Director's decision erred under this 
criterion by requiring the Petitioner "to demonstrate a level of interest ... commensurate with substantial national or 
international acclaim." A determination regarding a petitioner's "national or international acclaim" is a relevant 
consideration in the final merits determination, but not a part of the initial assessment as to whether the evidence meets the 
requirements of a particular regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 28, 2024 In Re: 30390318 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a video editor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, he did not show his sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled the following three claimed categories: judging at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). In addition, the Director found the Petitioner did not meet the following two claimed 
criteria: leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and commercial successes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x) through the submission of comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "this appeal contests only the Service's final merits 
determination." Because the Petitioner does not contest or rebut the Director's findings for the leading 
or critical role and commercial successes criteria, we determine them to be waived. An issue not raised 
on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter 
ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
In addition, although the Director found the Petitioner met the judging and high salary criteria, the 
record does not support this determination. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's favorable 
conclusions for these two criteria, discussed below. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
USCIS determines whether the person has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification. 1 The petitioner must show that the person has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the person actually participated in the judging of the work of 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 
others in the same or allied field of specialization.2 For example, a petitioner might document the 
person's peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the 
review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the person actually completed the review. 3 
The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility for this criterion. In response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE), the cover letter indicated that the Petitioner "has participated as a judge for the 
work of others for the Television's Academy's Emmy Awards under the peer group ofl II for artistic and technical merit for the national and international television industry." In support 
of this claim, the Petitioner provided a "Voting" screenshot from the Television Academy's website 
reflecting "Congratulations you've finished voting in all eligible categories" and listed eight 
categories. However, the screenshot does not identify the Petitioner as the judge who participated in 
the voting. In fact, the screenshot does not recognize any individual who conducted the judging. 
Moreover, while the Petitioner offered a "Personal Information" screenshot indicating the Petitioner's 
membership status, the document does not show any voting history or substantiate the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge in the prior "Voting" screenshot. Even if the Petitioner judged this event, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate he conducted this voting prior to the filing of the petition. Eligibility 
must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Again, the Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility for this 
criterion and provided evidence in response to the Director's RFE. However, the evidence does not 
contain any dates for the voting, and the Petitioner did not establish when his purported judging 
occurred. 
In addition, the Petitioner claimed that he "has participated as a judge in the I Emmy 
Awards where television programs like news, programming, and sports within the I market 
are awarded." The Petitioner submitted a document without any identifying characteristics reflecting: 
"Thank You! Your submission has been received. Thank you for your RSVP to judge for the 
Emmy Awards." Similar to the discussion above, the document does not identify the Petitioner, 
or anybody else, as a judging participant. Furthermore, the document does not show actual judging 
but acknowledgment of an interest to judge at the I I Emmy A wards. 4 
Further, the Petitioner submitted another unidentified document reflecting a "Call for Judges -
Spanish" with the Petitioner's name, personal information, and employment questions. However, the 
document does not show the Petitioner actually participated as a judge at the event rather than an 
application to judge. Although the Petitioner presented additional documentation regarding 
background information about the I I Emmy A wards and membership requirements 
for the I Ithe evidence does not show the Petitioner's actual 
involvement in the judging process. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish his actual participation as a judge of the work of others, we 
withdraw the Director's favorable finding for this criterion. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate he satisfies this criterion. 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
4 The Emmy Awards were held on 2002 at the Television Academy's campus in ___ California. See www.emmys.com. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working the field. 5 The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility for this criterion. In 
response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a copy of his 2022 Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS) Form 1040, U.S. Individual Income Tax Return and comparable editor salaries. The Petitioner, 
however, did not provide any substantiating documentation of his income that he reported on his tax 
return. For example, the Petitioner did not offer any accompanying IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax 
Statement. The Petitioner also did not submit any other supporting evidence, such as paystubs, 
contracts, employer letters, or other documentation confirming his salary, employer, and occupation. 
Without corroborating evidence, the Petitioner's self-prepared and unsigned IRS Form 1040 is not 
sufficient to establish his salary as a video editor. Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does not identify 
his employer or employers, how much he earned from each employer or employers, and whether his 
compensation was in an editor occupation or that he received income from other employment 
occupations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's 2022 IRS Form 1040, which is not dated and signed, is based on the total 
income for 2022. The Petitioner filed his petition in July 2022. Eligibility must be established at the 
time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. at 49. Here, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated his earnings prior to the filing ofthe petition and submits evidence relating to income 
received, in part, after the filing of the petition. 
Because he has not demonstrated his earnings as a video editor, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
commands a high salary relative to others in the field. Accordingly, we withdraw the favorable 
findings of the Director for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 6 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13495683 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the chief executive officer of a robotics company, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification . The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. Accordingly , we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering at Universit in 2017. Durin his 
graduate studies, he performed research in the university's.___ __________ ~ _ __._, 
I I. He is now employed as the chief executive officer and co-founder of I lwhich is headquartered inL I with offices in China. .___ _ _. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner has claimed to meet up to six of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
I (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one criterion, related to his authorship of scholarly articles 
in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record supports the Director's 
determination, as it contains evidence that the Petitioner has co-authored articles published in scientific 
journals and conference proceedings, including International Journal of Robotics Research, Science 
Robotics, and IEEE Transactions on Robotics. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets up to 
four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
2 
Petitioner meets two additional criteria, discussed below, and therefore satisfies the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification.1 
As it relates to the leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 h)(3)(viii), the Director 
determined that the Petitioner erforms in a uali in role fo However, the Director 
observed that.__ ______________ ~ noting that "the Ell visa classification 
is intended for 'that small percentage who have risen [not will rise] to the very top of the field of 
endeavor."' On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director applied an improper standard by 
considering the longevity of the organization in evaluating whether it has a distinguished reputation, 
stating that such an analysis is contrary to USCIS guidance on this criterion. 2 We agree, and further 
emphasize that a determination of whether an individual's leading or critical role reflects their 
placement among those at the very top of the field is one which is appropriate in the final merits 
determination; it is not required by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Upon de novo 
review, we conclude that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence in the form of industry and media 
recognition to establish thatl lenjoys a distinguished reputation notwithstanding its 
relatively early stage of development. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of an individual's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. We 
agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director did not give sufficient weight to expert 
opinion letters in the record. 
For example.__ _____ ____. Director otl ts1---_~ex'-'=-',lains that the Petitioner's "major 
contribution to the field is to the development of a m h I f r robots that 
significantly improves a robot's capability of performingl_ _________ --t"=LJ....11:.,U....U-'-'-i 
dangerous for humanl I He describes how the Petitioner's advancements in robotic 
have been incorporated into (lj I robot designed by NASA's Jet Propulsion~L_a_b_o-ra-to-ry~ 
(JPL) fo~ !exploration; (2) the,___-~-~-.---..,.....,...... robot developed byl I and 
Google to~ l exploration; and (3) an ongoing project with NASA which involves usingl I I I to objects in space . 
.___ ___ ___,..-----'-'D"'-',irector ofl l·s I I further discusses the Petitioner's ~--=--=---------:---:-:---=!......_-~ work on the ro·ect in which the lab cr:~.ted "a I I avatar that can perform 
complicated.___ ______ ~ tasks atl,___ __ ,..........J 
[The Petitioner] developed a full set of methodologies that delive;:.;.r-=-ed=-==I =====;'I 
,___ ___ ____.I in complex environments including underactuated ~I ----~I 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that he did not submit evidence that satisfies the judging criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). We therefore consider the Petitioner to have waived that criterion. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 
l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, 
that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States 
v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10-11 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is not in and of itself a determining factor in evaluating whether it has a distinguished reputation). 
3 
improvement inl I, I I and learning, and contributed to development of I I software for I I These research 
results have had a significant impact on the robotics field and brought him numerous 
publications in ... the rp inteTational journal and conferences in robotics and marked 
him as an expert in the of robots inl !environments. 
The record shows that some of the Petitioner's published papers associated with these projects 
received coverage in science and mainstream publications, and researchers at other laboratories attest 
to the importance of the Petitioner's innovations in robotic For exam le, 
discusses the Petitioner's develo ment of a' 
deeming it "a 
1---,-,..,...,....--' powerful tool that accelerates robot development for better~---~ability in complicated 
conditions" and noting that it has been used by many other top university labs in the field. Overall, 
the letters provide sufficient detail, and are supported by sufficient supporting evidence, to establish 
the nature and significance of the Petitioner's contributions to several projects atl I Based on 
this evidence, we conclude that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence, including evidence submitted in support of the remaining claimed criteria, in the context 
of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b){l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner received his bachelor's degree in mechanical 
engineering froml I University in 2012 and his master's degree and Ph.D. from I I 
University in 2014 and 2017, respectively. The record reflects thatl lwas co-founded 
by the Petitioner and along with some of his fellow! !alumni in 2016 or 2017, and that the 
Petitioner currently serves as its CEO.4 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 The record contains! l·s offer letter to the Petitioner (dated September 2017) iodirting that he was 
hired for the position of~----~· The Petitioner's offer letter was signed by] in his capacity as 
CEO. However, more recent evidence, including press releases and contracts, consistently identifies the Petitioner as the 
company's CEO and legal representative. 
4 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles, made original contributions through 
his graduate research a~ I and currently leads a robotics company that has earned a distinguished 
reputation among startups in its industry. We have also considered evidence related to recognition of 
the Petitioner's research and business-related endeavors in the form of media coverage and awards. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to his scholarly work, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that publication of articles "is not 
an easy task" and that "not every academic or researcher succeeds in publishing in peer-reviewed 
professional journals recognized as key to their particular field of study or research." While we do 
not disagree with this assertion, we emphasize that publication of research does not automatically 
place a scientist at the top of the field. 5 Here, the Petitioner demonstrated that he had authored 
approximately 20 articles published in scientific journals and conference proceedings at the time of 
filing. We acknowledge thatl I a fellowl I graduate who collaborated with the 
Petitioner on research projects atl I, states that the Petitioner has pub I ished "an exceptional 
number" of articles "for someone his age." The Petitioner has not established, however, that the number 
of articles he published over the last five years is indicative of achieving national or international acclaim 
in his field, which includes scientists in the robotics field and not only those who have received their 
doctorate degrees within the last several years. Nor has he otherwise provided evidence that would 
meaningfully distinguish his publication record from that of others in the field. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of researchers, the citation history or other 
evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and 
recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. While 
the record includes evidence of citations to his research, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these 
citations represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of 
his field.6 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner does not provide evidence demonstrating that 
these rates of citation are indicative of a high level of recognition in the field. The Petitioner, for 
instance, did not compare his citation statistics to others in his field of endeavor who are recognized 
as already being at the top in the field. Nor has the Petitioner otherwise demonstrated that his 
published work, individually or collectively, has garnered attention at a level indicative of sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, to the Petitioner's citation history, we have considered evidence that several of the research 
projects in which he was involved at I I were reported on in scientific and mainstream 
publications, including IEEE Spectrum, ScienceNews, and Wired. As noted, the Petitioner submitted 
testimonial evidence establishing his contributions tol l's high-profile endeavors related to the 
design of robots for I !exploration. The media recognition sufficiently demonstrates 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 13 (noting that, as part of a multi-part analysis an individual's 
publications should be evaluated to determine whether they are indicative of the petitioner being one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor). 
6 The Petitioner's initial evidence included his Google Scholar profile, which indicated that his published work had 
cumulatively received 168 citations as of April 2019. He provided an updated profile in response to the Director's RFE 
which reflects 280 total citations as of May 2020. Continued citation of the Petitioner's work after the filing date speaks 
to the significance of that work, which we have granted, above; but it cannot retroactively establish eligibility at the time 
of filing. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). 
5 
that the projects were considered to involve important advances within the robotics field and wider 
scientific community. 
However, the media coverage of these projects does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national 
or international acclaim based on his contributions. For example, articles published b ScienceNews 
and Wired re ardin the Petitioner's co-authored Science Robotics article 
L..,_ ___________________ __,.-----,..,..-------'-...:..co=n_;_;t;.:,;,;:.:,ain quotes 
from several other members of the research team, including.___ ___ .,....~-----~ andD I I, al I graduate student identified as the lead author of the paper. Although the 
PetItIoner's key contributions to this successful project are documented in the record and we 
recognized the significance of those contributions above, the media re arts do not single him out or 
acknowledge him other than listing him among "additional co-authors" of the paper 
discussed. The submitted media covera e of other ro·ects undertaken at is com arable. An 
IEEE Spectrum article titled L------r----l---------------_J I I" describes the origins of th project, the challenges it overcame, and its 
success, and it includes quotes from.___ __ ~and others, but it does not mention the Petitioner. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner was deeply involved in important robotics research during his graduate 
studies atl I the record, in the aggregate, indicates that the resulting acclaim for that work 
resides predominantly with thel land its permanent senior researchers, rather than specifically 
with the Petitioner. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner received some individual reco nition durin his time at 
by co-authoring a paper that received a Best P,--"a=-"-'er'-'A'---'-'-'w""'a"""rd"--=-o"""n ________ --.--____ __, 
at the 2016 IEEE International Conference on.___ ___________ ___. held in Korea. 
However, the Petitioner submitted little information regarding this award beyond providing the award 
certificate itself, and a brief description of the purpose of the award. We recognize the Petitioner's 
claim that IEEE is internationally recognized organization, but the overall reputation of the 
organization does not provide sufficient basis for us to conclude that any award bestowed at any of its 
conferences is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. The submitted 
evidence reflects that award winners and finalists for all awards given at the conference were listed on 
the conference website at iros2016.org/awards.html, but the record does not contain evidence of any 
other recognition associated with the award outside of the conference itself. The Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that he has been the recipient of other awards or that his receipt of this award at the 
IEEEI Fonference resulted in his national or international acclaim or placed him among that small 
percentage of robotics researchers at the very top of the field. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's role as CEO withl I and its 
resulting impact on his standing in the field. The evidence shows that the company had received 
sufficient media and industry recognition at the time of filing to establish its reputation as one of the 
most I I in its industry. 7 The Petitioner placed significant emphasis on the fact that 
Robotics Business Review a ma·or trade ublication, wrote aboutl I in its 2019 issue 
featuring the However, it was not listed among the Top 50, but rather 
was named by the publisher as.___ ____________ ___,' which includes companies 
7 The evidence reflects that~xhibited its prototype trials for the first time in April 2019, approximately six months 
prior to the filing of the petition, and was still ramping up staffing and mass production capabilities at the time of filing. 
6 
that 
The article's description o_.__ _ __,--escribes its 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that Robotics Biz 
(robitcsbiz.org),,-!-n~a.u.m.!..!<ec.l:!.d.1=;---- ..... among its .....,...-~r------.---------'-i_n_, 
an article dated 2019. That article credits with creatin 
and notes that the 
company was founded 'L--------------------------r----,.J 
While the record contains evidence that the Petitioner is listed as co-inventor on many of __ -s 
patent applications, neither article mentions the Petitioner and we cannot conclude that this recent 
industry recognition of the company's innovative product has garnered him individual recognition that 
rises to the level of national or international acclaim. 
The evidence also establishes that, in 2019, various media outlets have either re-published ..... I_...., I I press releases or pub I ished articles reporting on those press releases. The first press release 
marked the Petitioner's launch ofl , ~ ,I at the annual I I I I trade fair inl , 12019. The press release and related articles identify the Petitioner as the 
company's co-founder and CEO and contain a brief quote from him regarding the I l's 
capabilities, but they are not about him. The second ress release and related articles, ublished in I 12019, markl l's release of 
Is more recent press 
release and related articles do not mention the Petitioner. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the media coverage ofl I reflects the Beneficiary's status as an individual who has 
garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation ." See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
The Petitioner has also provided evidence that I ~ has been the recipient of several 
industry awards, including the0Robot Award, thel Award, and the I I 
Award. Of these three awards, only thQ Robot Award was bestowed prior to the filing of this 
petition. With respect to the0Robot Award, we note that the award certificate is written in both 
En~lish and Chinese and is not accompanied by a full English translation.8 The Petitioner indicates 
tha I is the recipient, but the portion of the certificate identifying the recipient has not 
been translated. Further, the record contains insufficient evidence regarding this award to support a 
finding that it is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. For example, the 
record does not contain an: additional information regarding the award or the awarding entity (the 
I J, any media coverage related to the award, or any other relevant 
evidence of the national or international significance of the award in the Petitioner's field. Therefore, 
even if we determined that the Petitioner could be considered the award recipient, we could not 
conclude thatl Is receipt of the award reflects he is among the sm;II perc1ntage of individuals at 
the very top of his field. The two remaining awards were received b in 2020 and indicative 
of the company's growing industry recognition and reputation in the field, but do not support a finding 
that the Petitioner enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim as of the date of filing in 2019. 
8 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate and certify that they are 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
7 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, most of the evidence related to the 
Petitioner's achievements dates from 2016 to 2019 and does not establish that his achievements to 
date, individual or collectively, have earned him a place among those at the very top of the field. While 
we acknowledge that an individual who is still early in their professional career may be able to 
demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim, the evidence here does not establish that the 
Petitioner had reached that level when he filed the petition. For the reasons discussed we find the 
record insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
lnt'I, 19 l&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22642954 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR.29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one criterion regarding 
display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four 
additional criteria, either directly or indirectly through comparable evidence. After reviewing all the 
evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria.1 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner contends that because "[f]ashion [d]esigners are not researchers or experts in the field 
that are affiliated with colleges, universities or research institutions[,] this criterion does not readily 
apply to the occupation." However, this criterion is not as limiting as the Petitioner asserts. Outside 
of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field2 and may 
appear "in professional or major trade publications or other major media." As the Petitioner has not 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 '"Learned' is defined as having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." See 6 USCJS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(2). https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 
established that this criterion does not apply to her profession, we cannot consider comparable 
evidence. 
The record contains documentation of the Petitioner's video presentation at the 2020 ____ 
regarding "what to look for when buying children's wear." 
The presentation was given to a general audience, specifically Spanish speaking fashion lovers, not 
"learned" persons in the field. In addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the presentation 
qualifies as major media. 
For the reasons above, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she not only played a leading or critical 
role, but also that the organization or establishment for which she played that role is recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation. Organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. 
( citing to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriamwebster.com/ 
dictionary/ distinguished). 
The Petitioner points to published articles about her company and that ofl I Collection to establish 
their distinguished reputation. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently established how appearing 
in these newspapers demonstrates the distinguished reputation of either her company or I I 
Collection. While the accompanying articles are complimentary and the evidence establishes the 
newspapers' circulation statistics, it does not sufficiently demonstrate that either of the companies are 
marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. For example, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence to indicate that the newspapers only publish material about organizations with a distinguished 
reputation. Without more, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's commercial successes in the pe,forming arts, as shown by box 
office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner asserts that this criterion does not readily apply to her occupation and that we should 
consider sales of her designs as comparable evidence. We agree. However, the burden is on the Petitioner 
to establish that the documentation submitted is indeed comparable to the evidence that would meet this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner cites to USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidentia,y 
Criteria in Certain Form 1-140 Petitions, (Dec. 22, 2010) which states, in pertinent part, that "[t]he 
evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the alien 's commercial 
success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts" ( emphasis added). While 
the record establishes that she sells her designs in stores, it does not demonstrate that the volume of 
her sales reflects her success relative to other fashion designers. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion through comparable evidence. 
3 
While the Petitioner asserts that she meets one additional criterion relating to published material at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on this additional ground because 
she cannot meet the required number of three criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, n. 7 ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675081 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bassoonist in the music field, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following categories: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance 
• (vii), Display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work of others 
in the same or allied field but determined she had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met three evidentiary criteria: published material about 
the individual in professional or major media; display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases; and holding a leading role for a distinguished organization. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not pursue her initial claims that she meets the criteria relating to lesser awards, membership in 
associations, and, original contributions, nor does she contest the Director's conclusions regarding 
these issues. We therefore consider those issues abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the judging criteria, but she also satisfies one additional category of evidence by her display 
of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner has therefore satisfied two 
criteria and must satisfy one more to prevail. As discussed below, we conclude she has not. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted articles from different publications that specifically discussed the Petitioner 
and her work as a bassoonist in the music industry. Each article included the title, date, and author 
and the necessary translation. The Petitioner also provided information regarding each publication to 
include the relevance of the publication, the intended audience, and circulation. 
In the Director's decision, he reviewed the articles submitted and found the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient evidence to establish the cited sources qualified as professional or major trade publications 
or other major media. 
The Petitioner contends she satisfies this criterion since she was featured in articles published in Qilu 
Evening News; Morning Post; Xiaoxiang Morning Herald; Jinan Times; New Weekly; and Music 
Weekly. The Petitioner provided printouts from various websites containing information about these 
publications. However, the accuracy of the information found on these websites is not clear. 
The Petitioner provided circulation data for each publication. The two publications with the highest 
circulation are Qilu Evening News with an average circulation of 1.35 million copies, and Morning 
Post with an average daily circulation of 680,000. The Petitioner did not provide the circulation data 
of these publications to compare with the circulation statistics of other Chinese newspapers and 
consequently failed to establish that these publications constitute major media. The record does not 
contextualize the provided circulation statistics, indicate their significance, or otherwise elaborate on 
how that information could establish that the publications are the type of major media contemplated 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, while the Qilu Evening News and Morning Post appear to have the highest circulation of 
the listed publications, it is not clear whether they are merely regional media for certain areas of China. 
The documentation stated that Qilu Evening News is distributed across 17 cities in China, and 
according to the World Association ofN ewspapers, ranks number 3 7 in circulations among worldwide 
newspapers. In addition, the documentation indicated Morning Post is "one of China's top 
metropolitan newspapers and one of the Top 100 dailies in the world." But the petitioner still did not 
provide sufficient information to establish that these publications have national rather than regional 
reaches within China. Publications with only a regional reach are not considered major media, and 
the Petitioner has not established that either publication is a professional or major trade publication, 
as also permitted by the regulation. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not meet the criterion relating to the display of her work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The regulation requires that the work 
displayed be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the work was 
displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). In support of this criterion, 
the Petitioner provided evidence of having played in several concerts and musical events, and she 
provided details regarding the venues at which she performed as a bassoonist. We conclude that these 
musical performances should be considered "artistic exhibitions or showcases" intended to showcase 
the Petitioner's musical talent as a bassoonist, and that she therefore satisfies the plain language of this 
criterion. Accordingly, we hereby withdraw the Director's determination that the criterion was not 
met. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help establish whether a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, this criterion requires that the organization or 
establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally id. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision 
and instead provides documentation previous! submitted. The Petitioner contends she erformed in 
a leadin role as a rinci al bassoonist in the 
According to the submitted job duties, it 
appears the Petitioner led and oversaw the bassoon section for the symphonies. Although the 
Petitioner held a leading role for the bassoon section, she did not provide sufficient documentation to 
establish she played a leading role in an organization. For example, the documentation does not 
establish that she performed a leading role for the symphonies as a whole, such as by showing she 
influenced its overall reputation or status, or that she was responsible for the organization's success. 
The Petitioner did not sufficiently explain or demonstrate that her role as a principal bassoonist for 
one of the symphony's many sections constitutes a leading role for the overall organization. 
Even if the Petitioner had contended her role was a leading role in a division of the organization, which 
she did not do, we would observe that she had not provided sufficient documentation to establish that 
4 
the specific division she had led itself maintained a distinguished reputation rather than contributing 
to the distinguished reputation of the symphony as a whole. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the petitioner performed in a 
leading role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner 
provided job duties and explained that she led the bassoon section as a principal bassoonist but did not 
provide sufficient evidence that she led an organization. Merely repeating the language of the statute 
or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 2 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24228176 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification on behalf of the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a Spanish language instructor who uses various forms of art to teach foreign 
languages. The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary's superior teaching abilities positioned her in 
leading and critical roles teaching Spanish at top universities in the United States, including I I 
University,! !University, University, andl !University. While we do not discuss 
each piece of evidence, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner initially claimed the Beneficiary met six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Performing a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. 
The Director found the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to judging the work of others and 
performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations, but that the Beneficiary had 
not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes of awards, published material, original contributions, 
or authorship of scholarly articles. The Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary meets each of the other 
criteria in which the Director found in the negative. Upon review, we agree with the Director that the 
Beneficiary has satisfied the judging of others and the performing in a leading or critical role criteria. 
2 
For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary has not satisfied the 
other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the Beneficiary received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 
Relevant considerations regarding whether excellence in the field was the basis for granting the prizes 
or awards include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national 
or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to prizes or awards as the 
recipient of the Exceptional Teaching Impact and Motivation Student Voice Award (EXTIMO), 
awarded to her by the I I chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and 
Portuguese (AATSP). The Director noted that the letter written by the President of the AATSP, I !Chapter, stated this award recognizes the top-most inspiring Spanish/Portuguese teachers in 
middle schools, high schools, and universities in each AA TSP chapter. The Director concluded the 
EXTIMO award from thel I chapter was a regional award rather than a national or international 
recognition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that although the EXTIMO is awarded by each chapter, the association 
has 10,000 members across the United States and is therefore a nationally recognized award. 
However, the organization's national membership is not sufficient evidence to overcome the letter's 
statement that the Beneficiary received the award for recognition of her work in thel !chapter. 
The Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence on appeal to overcome the Director's concerns and 
indicate the EXTIMO award granted at a local chapter level is recognized nationally. 
In addition, absent information regarding, for example, the number of competitors in the Petitioner's 
age category, or evidence of the level of recognition associated with this award, we cannot find that 
the Beneficiary has satisfied each element of the criterion. The record lacks sufficient evidence 
verifying that prizes and awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Beneficiary herself received any recognition 
from outside the issuing organization. 
For the reasons stated above, the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance). 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Under this criterion, an individual must show that published material was about them and related to 
their work in the field and did not just focus on their employer or another organization. In addition, 
an individual must show that the publication in which this material appeared was one of the qualifying 
types through evidence comparing its circulation or viewership to other publications and/or evidence 
regarding its intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner contends the Beneficia satisfies this criterion since she published two articles: 
and I 
___ Upon review of these articles we conclude the for this criterion because 
they are not about the Beneficiary. The I I article discusses an assignment from one of the Beneficiary's classes and the outcome of that 
project; however, it is mainly about the project and general information about the course offered by 
the Beneficiary. Nor does I I satisfy this criterion. The 
Beneficiary is a contributor, but the article is about the Mexican filmmaker I I and a 
conversation with him about his film. Since this article does not discuss the Beneficiary at all, it does 
not qualify under this criterion. 
Further, even if the article is is 
considered about the Beneficiary because it discusses one of her course offerings, it would not be 
sufficient to establish it was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. The article was published in thel !website. In response to the Director's request for 
evidence, the Petitioner submitted the website visitation and ranking data for from 
SimilarWeb.com. On appeal, the Petitioner states that !University's website had approximately 
7.8 million visits last month. The website statistics from SimilarWeb.com indicate that ranks 
7,609 globally and 1,810 in the United States; it also shows the average amount of visits to the website 
and time viewers spend on the website. However, the record does not contextualize those statistics, 
indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information could establish that the website is the 
type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, on appeal, the Petitioner 
states for the first time that website is a professional publication but does not provide any 
supporting evidence to corroborate this claim. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Beneficiary's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
4 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation causing it to duplicate 
another provision or have no consequence). Further, the Beneficiary's contributions must have already 
been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance 
connotes that the Beneficiary's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Beneficiary made major contributions and has disseminated her 
techniques throughout the field via lectures at major conferences, publications in globally ranked 
websites, and acknowledgements of her work in teaching and student assessments. 
Several of the submitted reference letters indicate the Beneficiary successfully utilizes resources such as 
film, art, sculpture, and murals to teach foreign languages. Several of the authors indicate her teaching 
techniques received national and international acclaim as evidenced through her invitations to speak at 
conferences to present her teaching approach. But outside of sharing her teaching approach at conferences 
and seminars, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact her contributions had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how an 
individual's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work 
add value. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not probative evidence that 
could form a basis for meeting this criterion. Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in 
part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field). Moreover, United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
The record contains evidence the Beneficiary spoke at several peer-reviewed conferences and served 
as a panelist at conventions and seminars. However, the Petitioner did not show how the Beneficiary's 
speaking and panelist engagements resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. The 
Beneficiary did not demonstrate, for example, that her participation or contribution to the events 
influenced the field in a significant, major manner. Publications and presentations are not sufficient 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian 
v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
For the reasons stated above, the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Beneficiary is an author of scholarly articles in her field 
in which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first is within the academic arena, in which a 
scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written 
5 
by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research 
institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, 
charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. The second area 
lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in 
that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." 
Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. Id. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends the Beneficiary qualifies for this criterion since she was published three times 
by the Northeast Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Language (NECTFL). However, while the 
evidence submitted shows the Beneficiary was a presenter for the conference in 2020, the Petitioner 
did not provide any evidence to support the claim the Beneficiary was in fact published by NECTFL. 
The Petitioner did not provide evidence that all presenters are automatically published. In addition, 
even if the Petitioner was published by NECTFL, the Petitioner did not submit the articles to determine 
if they qualify as scholarly articles. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions 
that are not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. Matter of Ho, 
22 I&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Pano v. O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 
1756, Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence the Beneficiary met either a one-time 
achievement or document she meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a 
determination on the issue of whether the Beneficiary's entry will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 29, 2024 In Re: 30645692 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who works as a director of product development and management for a technology 
company, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either by demonstrating 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; 
and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Here, because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of these criteria, but the 
Director determined he fulfilled the requirements of only two: authorship of scholarly articles and 
performance in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also made original 
contributions of major significance in his field and has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration in relation to others. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (ix). 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet the "high salary" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), 
the Director found that he submitted comparative wage data that relied on average or median salary 
figures and did not demonstrate that the submitted data was for a similar position. 
The record reflects the Petitioner provided a letter from his current employer and relevant supporting 
evidence documenting his job duties, salary earnings, and other guaranteed compensation. He also 
submitted comparative wage information from the U.S. Department of Labor and other credible 
sources, which provides a range of salaries (including high salaries) for similarly employed persons 
working in the same geographic area. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on evaluating initial evidence of 
extraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). While the Petitioner's job title 
does not exactly correspond to the occupational titles for which he provided wage data, his employer's 
description of his job duties reflects a sufficiently close match. The data was position-appropriate and 
otherwise supported the Petitioner's assertion that he earns a high salary. Therefore, we conclude he 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification 
the Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. USCIS must now 
determine whether the record establishes the sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top 
of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety to make 
a final merits determination. The final merits determination should weigh the evidence submitted in 
support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), any other potentially 
relevant evidence in the record, and the Petitioner's claims and evidence on appeal. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6388134 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the managing partner of a venture capital firm, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed in Japan atl I a telecommunications company; his exact title 
and responsibilities there are not clear from the record. He seeks employment as the managing partner of 
the U.S. office of~-------~' a venture capital firm. The Petitioner contends that he "enjoys 
an international reputation as one of the top venture capitalists in the world," and "as a pioneer who single­
handedly developed the Japanese startup scene." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed the evidentiary criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets all five that he had previously claimed. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director, as explained below, that the Petitioner 
does not meet any of the claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles from several publications. The only publication that meets the 
"professional or major trade publications or other major media" requirement is Asahi Shimbun, a major 
Japanese newspaper. Asahi Shimbun held a symposium about its Accelerator Program and venture 
investments, and the newspaper printed quotations from the Petitioner and three other participants. 
The article also identified the occupations of each of the symposium's participants. Although the 
2 
Petitioner is quoted several times in the article, the article is about corporate venture capital, and 
presents the perspectives and observations of the symposium participants regarding the state of 
corporate venture capitalism in Japan and abroad. The Petitioner's brief comments in this article are 
not enough to satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "contributed to the field in a major way by opening channels of 
investment between Japan and I I: 
While [the Petitioner] rorked atl l he led the investment team in a then little 
known startup called _ I After investing an initial $2 Million,! I 
invested another $15 Million later on. Today, I I is worth over $1 Billion andLJ I learned a return of four times its original investment. . . . [The Petitioner] 
developed the structure that has since then been used countless times by Japanese venture 
capitalists. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his involvement inl h investment inl I but 
did not provide objective evidence to support his key claim that Japanese venture capitalists follow the 
model that he established. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from five individuals: 
• The spouse of Japan's prime minister, who met the Petitioner during a business trip, asserts that 
the Petitioner "achiev[ ed] successful investment inl pompany and business collaborations 
with startups." 
• The former chief executive officer (CEO) ofl I states that the Petitioner "concluded the 
partnership contract within 3 months," whereas "it usually takes about 6 months to finalize a deal 
with a large Japanese company." 
• The founder and CEO of1~~------~l "Ja~ 1.__ _____ ____.company," 
who worked with the Petitioner and the then-CEO ofL___j"on the [company's] expansion in 
Japan." He calls the Petitioner "a very rare talent" with "deep insights of the US venture capitalist 
and market and startup ecosystem." 
• The vice president of.__ _______ ___., involved in "investing in startup companies in the 
United States," states that the Petitioner "advised us with thorough knowledge [ of] startups in I land..._-_______ __,J" He states that the Petitioner "has helped to attract 
3 
many Japanese companies to I l" and "is recognized [ as the] first choice to meet 
when inl V as hi alway! gives practical and insightful advice." 
• The chief representative of s I I office appointed the Petitioner as a mentor 
because he "was very impressed with [the Petitioner's] experience as an investor in [fJast-paced 
startups, and as the mastermind behind countless collaboration[ s] between US startups and large 
companies in Japan." 
While the letter writers praise the Petitioner and his abilities, they do not explain how specific original 
contributions are of major significance in the field, rather than important to specific companies. General 
assertions regarding the Petitioner's reputation cannot suffice in this regard. The letters do not indicate 
that the Petitioner has had a significant and broadly evident effect on the way Japanese venture capitalists 
invest in U.S. businesses. 
The Director requested documentary evidence to establish both the nature and the significance of the 
Petitioner's contributions to the field. In response, the Petitioner stated: 
I came up with the blue print on how large Asian companies could successfully invest in I I The previous model involved the company itself making the investment, 
which often involved a complex, lengthy, and tedious approval process frequently leading 
to the start-up closing a deal with a competitor. My approach was different: I would help 
such large corporation[ s] create a small, autonomous, and independent investment arm: 
this structure proved to be the key to successful investment in the United States, and has 
helped large companies generate large returns. 
This model was followed by others. For instance,! I the finance newspaper, 
followed in my footsteps: the company created a venture capital arm called! I I I Essentially, before setting up the fund, I I used to invest in start-
up companies directly. The spin off from the company's headquarter[s] helped it to 
succeed. 
In his letter, the vice president of acknowledged that the Petitioner provided 
"practical assistance" when the company established! L but he did not indicate 
that, in doing so, the company was following a model that the Petitioner had established. 
The Petitioner submitted information about Japanese investment in American companies, but this 
information did not mention the Petitioner or establish how his activities had major significance. 
Furthermore, the submitted materials address Japanese investment in the aggregate, and do not distinguish 
between investment in startups and in more established businesses. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had made original contributions, but had 
not shown them to be of major significance in the field. The Director stated: "most of the letters of 
support were written by experts who have employed, instructed, or collaborated with" the Petitioner, and 
therefore did not amount to independent assessments of the Petitioner's work. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "none of the letters ... are from individuals who worked for [the 
Petitioner], or for whom [the Petitioner] worked." The individuals do not appear to have been the 
Petitioner's employers or employees, but the Director was broadly correct in that four of the five writers 
have worked closely with the Petitioner in some way. 
The Petitioner states that these ties to the writers do not inherently discredit the letters. This is true as far 
as it goes, because individuals close to the Petitioner are in a position to attest to the nature of the 
Petitioner's activities. But those individuals cannot directly attest to the effect that the Petitioner's work 
has had outside of his own circle of colleagues, clients, and collaborators. If the Petitioner's work has 
had a significant impact on the field, then that impact would not be limited to those who have worked 
closely with him. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "developed a new process for large companies to quickly and efficiently 
invest foreign funds into the US economy, specifically young startup companies," and that "his new 
process has rapidly been adopted by other Japanese companies and is now common practice among large 
Japanese companies." This vague and general statement lacks the details and corroboration necessary to 
verify such claims. The Petitioner has not shown that companies to which he has no direct connection 
have, nevertheless, adopted his "new process," with field-wide significance. The Petitioner has not 
documented what was "common practice among large Japanese companies" or submitted direct, 
documentary evidence to show that his method has supplanted former "common practice" to a significant 
extent. 
The Petitioner has not established that he made original contributions of major significance in his field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner wrote a piece with the (translated) title '.__ _____________ ___. The 
Petitioner stated that the piece is an article published in Nikkei Shimbun, "the world's largest financial 
newspaper." 
Outside the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship"). Learned 
persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-
602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the 
Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
The submitted piece is written in an informal style, and conveys the Petitioner's personal perspectives 
rather than scholar! findin s. For exam le one sentence reads: 
The Petitioner also 
speculates about business matters, stating: I 
5 
The Director found that the submitted writings "are not scholarly in nature." On appeal, the Petitioner 
states that the "article contains concrete advice and recommendations regarding the strategy behind 
corporate restructuring," and that he "clearly intended to write an article to be read by learned persons in 
his field of expertise and his choice of The Nikkei demonstrates that." The article begins with general 
opinions and observations before focusing on restructuring at Google and related companies. While this 
information would be of greatest interest to a specialized audience, the content of the piece appears to be 
at the level of general commentary rather than "profound knowledge or scholarship." 
The Petitioner also contends that Nikkei Shimbun is a business newspaper "intended to be read by learned 
businesspeople, and therefore scholarly." This argument does not address the content of the article itself 
Rather, the Petitioner seeks to establish that the article appeared in a scholarly forum. 
However, we need not consider whether Nikkei Shimbun is a scholarly publication, because the Petitioner 
has not shown that Nikkei Shimbun published the article. The submitted printout is from Medium.com, 
and it appears to be a post from a blog entitled The Sun Also Rises. A separate printout appears to show 
that a link to the blog post appeared on another website, which may be Nikkei Shimbun' s site, but this is 
not clear because the printout is untranslated and greatly reduced in size. The link is at the bottom of the 
page, consistent with the placement of sponsored links to outside content that routinely appear on many 
news sites. The Petitioner did not show that Nikkei Shimbun directly published the piece or exercised any 
editorial control over its content or publication. 
Furthermore, the evidence indicates that the piece is one of a series of blog posts, rather than a standalone 
article in Nikkei Shimbun. There is a "(2)" in the title; the piece begins with the phrase "[l]ast time ... "; 
and the final sentence is "[n]ext time I would dig deeper and consider these hints." Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner claims only this one piece as a scholarly article. The Petitioner has not shown that The Sun 
Also Rises is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
There remain two farther claimed criteria: 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of these last two criteria cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 
Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues. 1 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
G 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6524417 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a writer and consultant on occupational safety and mediation , seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as a "writers consultant" and a "writer of content related to the mediation 
of conflicts, good labor practices and industrial safety." The Petitioner states that she has worked as a 
"legal advisor to various companies," attorney, college professor, and "Labor Judge." The Petitioner 
states that she hopes to promote her theories through various means, including publications, "International 
Forums and Seminars," and "a radio program in the State of Nebraska" directed at "the large amount of 
Latin-Americans living in that State." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director granted only (iv), relating to participation as a judge. On appeal, the Petitioner withdraws 
her claim regarding artistic exhibitions or showcases, and claims two additional criteria: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only the criterion relating to judging the work of others. 1 We discuss the remaining claimed 
criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The.__ ______ __.Corporation and I !Foundation awarded the Petitioner a prize 
"for her Bright Career as National and International Labor Law Writer." Background information refers 
to "[l]ocal initiatives in the state of I I in Venezuela, but other information from the entity indicates 
that individuals in other countries can receive the award. 
The Foundation of Venezuela chose the Petitioner from "among 5 nominees" for the ~ 
Award for "Best Writer in the Law Area." Information from the foundation states: 'The~ ,...___--,, 
.__ _ __. is a nonprofit national and international award, whereby the candidates are chosen on a national 
level and from all parts of the world." The information also indicates: "The award is extended to other 
nations of the continent," which seems to contradict the reference to "all parts of the world." 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish national or international recognition of the 
awards. Rather, the Director concluded that the scope of the awards is "limited to members of [the 
awarding] association," and that the I lis a "local initiative." 
On appeal, the Petitioner correctly observes that the phrase "local initiative" refers to the organization's 
roots rather than to the scope of its activities. The information from the entities indicates that the awards 
are available to individuals beyond Venezuela. 
It remains, however, that the Petitioner has not established the national or international recognition of the 
awards. Information provided by the awarding entities themselves provides important context, but cannot 
establish the level ofrecognition of those awards outside of those organizations. An entity's promotional 
statements about the significance of its own awards carries little weight. The submitted information also 
indicates that both entities are "endorsed by the International Awards Foundation," but the record does 
not directly document this endorsement or establish its significance. The regulatory standard is national 
or international recognition of the awards, rather than endorsement by any particular body or national or 
international availability of the awards. 
Also on appeal, the Petitioner states: "I consider that this Criterion has been proven since it has been 
recognized by important National Newspapers of the Country." This appears to be a reference to several 
newspaper articles published in.__ ______ ~of 2019. We address these articles in more detail 
further below, but they bear discussion here in terms of their relevance to the Petitioner's prizes. A 
number of these articles do mention the Petitioner's awards, but, as we discuss below, the articles appear 
1 The Petitioner served on the jury for the 20161 I awards. She also served on an "External Jmy [for] the presentation 
and defense" of master's theses at a university in Venezuela. The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We 
will not disturb that finding. Had the case proceeded to a final merits determination, we would have considered the evidence 
( or lack thereof) concerning the nature and significance of the Petitioner's judging activity. 
3 
to derive from promotional press releases. The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that either 
prize received media coverage at the time she received the prizes in 2016 and 2018. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim any memberships under this criterion, and therefore the Director did 
not address the issue in the denial notice. On appeal, the Petitioner states: (note: errors have not been 
corrected): 
I am a member of two important associations which belong to these institutions 
outstanding achievement is required, to enter you need a number of requirements between 
those who have written works and who have caused extraordinary recognition, through 
awards or have been recognizing in newspapers of greater circulation, they as experts 
evaluate the work and if they consider that they met the requirements grant him the 
membership. There in the letters praise my career as a professional highlighting my 
merits. Consequently, he requested that these letters be analyzed well and consider 
granting this criterion. So I request it. 
The Petitioner does not identify the "two important associations" in the appellate brief Other materials 
submitted on appeal refer to three associations: the Society ofl lof Venezuela; the 
Association o~ lofVenezuela; and the Bar Association. The Petitioner does not show that any of 
these associations require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national 
or international experts in their fields. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not previously claim to have met 
this criterion. Therefore, the Director did not err by disregarding the issue in the denial notice. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted letters indicating that she appeared on programs on two radio stations in I !Venezuela, to speak about mediation. The Petitioner did not submit transcripts to show the 
content of the broadcasts, or evidence to show that the two radio stations are major media. The Petitioner 
later submitted copies of articles announcing the publication of her latest book. 
The Director acknowledged the submitted articles, but found that the Petitioner did not establish that they 
appeared in publications that meet the requirements of the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits background information about some of the publications. But there is a 
more fundamental issue. The articles all appeared in late I I 2019, after the 
4 
Petitioner had filed the petition, and after the Director had issued a request for evidence. A petitioner 
must establish eligibility at the time of filing, and continuing through the adjudication of the petition. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Because the articles were published after the petition's filing date (January 11, 
2019), they cannot establish eligibility as of the date of filing. 
Furthermore, the articles share similar content and tone, focusing on a book that the Petitioner published 
inl 12018 and providing biographical details about the Petitioner. Many articles show the same 
photograph of the Petitioner holding a copy of her book. Some of the articles share the same text. The 
similiarities are especially significant considering that these articles do not name the author( s ), as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In the absence of persuasive evidence to explain why so many newspapers and websites simultaneously 
took notice of a book that had been published several months earlier, using similar or identical language, 
we conclude that the most likely common source for these materials is a press release issued by either the 
Petitioner or someone acting on her behalf 2 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the_field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
Letters from various individuals, primarily at universities, indicate that the Petitioner has made significant 
contributions through her work on mediation and occupational health. The letters, however, provide few 
details about the nature of those contributions, and little explanation as to how her work is significant. 
For example, an occupational physician states that the Petitioner wrote a judicial decision in a court case 
involving an injured worker, and that the Petitioner's decision highlighted safety violations by the 
employer. The physician asserted that, as a result, "[ e ]mphasis was placed on the importance of the 
presence of the Safety Personnel in all field work." The record lacks documented detail about how the 
Petitioner's work, specifically, led to significant and widespread improvements in occupational safety. 
Another occupational physician stated that the Petitioner wrote a safety manual that "was made available 
to higher education institutions," but the record does not establish the extent of the manual's distribution 
or its impact on the field of occupational safety. 
2 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may 
reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
5 
A professor at a school of public administration in Colombia stated that the Petitioner's work on mediation 
"has made a momentous change in our university . . . . It contributed to the establishment of a University 
Mediation system." The Petitioner did not show how the effect of the Petitioner's work on one 
university's internal policies amounts to major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner stated that two of her judicial decisions "caused extraordinary achievements in the 
companies, which implemented correction mechanisms." From the context, we cannot tell whether the 
Petitioner means the specific companies named in the court decisions, or all the companies under the 
court's jurisdiction. The Petitioner did not show that the court in question had jurisdiction beyond the 
~region of Venezuela. 
The Director noted the publication of the Petitioner's work, but stated that publication does not establish 
significance. The Director also acknowledged the submitted letters, but concluded that they do not meet 
the Petitioner's burden of proof 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the submitted letters show "gratitude for the great contribution I 
made." The Petitioner notes that she has been invited to make a presentation at a conference on 
occupational health and safety. The invitation arrived after the petition's filing date, and the record does 
not show the circumstances under which the Petitioner received the invitation. 
The Petitioner's response to the request for evidence added some details to the discussion of the 
Petitioner's claimed contributions, but do not establish the significance of those contributions or show 
how they have had an impact beyond~ and a small number of identified companies. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner states that she wrote three books: a "study guide for law students and professionals" which 
"compiles the most important stages and phases of the Venezuelan Labor Procedure"; a "Manual of 
Rulings and case law analysis in labor matters"; and a book that "focuses on the mediation techniques." 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the books have been published and are available for sale. 
The Petitioner initially claimed that these books constituted display at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), but now asserts that this was in error and that she meant to claim them 
as scholarly articles. 
The submitted evidence is not sufficient to show that the works are scholarly. The record does not contain 
copies or substantial excerpts of the works themselves. The assertion that universities use the Petitioner's 
materials is not sufficient to establish their scholarly nature. The Petitioner also did not submit evidence 
to establish the nature or reputation of the publishers, to establish that the books appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 
G 
A publishing contract in the record does not indicate that the publisher exercised any editorial control 
over the Petitioner's work, or subjected it to peer review. Rather, the Petitioner "bear[ s] full responsibility 
for the Work's content." 
Because the Petitioner did not claim authorship of scholarly articles before the denial of the petition, the 
Director had no opportunity to address this claim. We conclude that the Petitioner has not satisfied the 
newly-claimed criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
Managers at a print shop, a security services company, and an oil and gas company stated that they relied 
on the Petitioner's writings on occupational health and safety. The manager of a "Safety and Labor 
Health" company stated that the Petitioner's "consultancy contributed to improve the labor conditions of 
the organizations [to which] we provided technical support." A professor at a university in Colombia 
credited the Petitioner with "important contributions in the legal field." The letters from these entities do 
not contain enough information to show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, and the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that the organizations have distinguished reputations. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish a leading or critical role with any organization 
shown to have a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she performed in a leading role as a judge and as a teacher at the 
National School I I She had documented this employment previously, but did not identify 
these roles as leading or critical prior to the appeal. Also, the Petitioner did not show that her former 
employers have distinguished reputations relative to other entities of the same kind. The assertion that 
"the Judicial Branch ... is recognized worldwide" is not sufficient in this regard. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
An "Income Attestation Report" lists the Petitioner's monthly income from 2015 through 2018, showing 
that the Petitioner derived income from three countries (Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru). The accountant 
who prepared the report stated the Petitioner "earns a high salary or with any other earning notably high 
in comparison with other persons in her line of business, as shown in [the] annexed list." The document, 
however, only shows the Petitioner's earnings; it does not provide any basis for comparison to show that 
her remuneration is high in relation to others in the field. Furthermore, the accountant did not identify 
the "line of business" in question. This is an important consideration because the Petitioner has, at various 
times, identified herself as a lawyer, a judge, a professor, a writer, and a consultant. The report does not 
show the specific source(s) of the Petitioner's remuneration, such as salary, book royalties, or consulting 
fees. Presented without any context, the raw numbers relating to the Petitioner's earnings cannot satisfy 
this regulatory criterion. 
7 
Asked for more details, the accountant stated that the Petitioner's earnings derived from "Legal Advice, 
a sale of art products and books of reading and art" and "Remuneration as I ~ Judge of the 
Labor of the Judicial District of the I I" The accountant also stated that the Petitioner earns 
"a remarkably high income and salary," but did not provide figures to allow a comparison with other 
writers or other judges. 
A "Certification of Salary" indicates that the Petitioner, as a judge, received a basic salary, plus a 
professional premium, seniority premium, and additional sums for travel and meal expenses. 
In the denial notice, the Director found that the Petitioner did not provide "a proper basis for comparison" 
to show that her remuneration is high relative to that of others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she had shown that she earned a "high salary in comparison [to] other 
Professionals of same field and in the same position." The "Certification of Salary" showed that the 
Petitioner earned more than the base salary, but did not show that her remuneration was significantly high 
in relation to others in her field -a field that includes judges with long experience in addition to newer 
judges who do not yet earn a seniority premium. 
Furthermore, as noted above, the Petitioner is not coming to the United States to work as a judge, but as 
a writer. Her earnings as a judge consistently exceeded her income from "professional fees" and other 
outside sources, and the Petitioner did not show that she ever earned significantly high remuneration from 
the kind of work she intends to perform in the United States. 
The Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6255658 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a vice president and quantitative analyst atl I seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked in quantitative analysis at~I ---~I since 2009, and in his current position as 
vice president and quantitative analyst since 2016.1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (viii) and (ix). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed evidentiary numbered (v) and (vi). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner met 
only two claimed criteria; therefore, we will only address the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles and original contributions of major significance. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner wrote or co-wrote several pieces for the I lplatform, including Market 
Commentaries,! IStrategJ' Weekly, and.__ _______ ____,Strategy Monthly. The Director 
determined that these articles (1) are not scholarly, and (2) did not appear in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
1 The same employer filed another immigrant petition on his behalt: seeking to classify him as a member of the professions 
with an advanced degree. The Director approved that petition, with a priority date of December 23, 2015. The approval 
of that petition is not affected by the present decision. 
2 
For fields outside the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that 
field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship"). 
Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. 2 The market commentaries 
discuss rates and prices relating to international financial products, as well as market trends. The Strategy 
Weekly newsletters discuss strategies, methods, and market performance. These materials are written in 
technical and specialized language that is not consistently accessible to lay readers. We conclude, 
therefore, that the Petitioner wrote for learned persons in his field, consistent with scholarly writings. 
The Petitioner, however, did not write for "all persons having profound knowledge of [his] field," and 
therefore we agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not show that the articles were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications should identify the intended audience of the publication. 3 The Market Commentaries are 
"Intended for Institutional clients only," while the strat~uments are "For Institutional Investors 
Only-Not for Onward Distribution." The global head ofL__JWire states that these materials are "not 
available to the generj1 plblic because they contain valuablf-..n9prietary analysis intended to provide a 
strategic advantage to clients. The intended audience isl__Jlients." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "it is impossible for the work of a business professional in the field 
emerging markets trading and risk management to be known and used outside of the community of his 
employer and clients."4 
In this instance, the Petitioner and his employer both stipulate that his writings are not available to the 
field at large. By design, the Petitioner's writings are kept out of the hands of most others in the 
industry. Therefore, those writings cannot have field-wide impact, and they cannot have the same 
effect as scholarly journals which exist to disseminate knowledge, and thereby advance the entire field. 
Notwithstanding the asserted size ofOclient pool, access to the Petitioner's work is restricted in 
a manner that prevents us from finding that that work has been "published" in the common 
understanding of that word. Limited distribution is not the same as publication. 
Because we have determined that the Petitioner's work did not appear in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, we need not address the separate question of whether those writings 
were scholarly. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 Id. 
4 Had this matter proceeded to a final merits determination, the Petitioner would have had to explain how he was able to 
achieve sustained national or international acclaim in his field, when his work is deliberately limited in distribution. 
3 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
In order to satisfy this regulation, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
In this instance, the limited distribution of the Petitioner's work also limits the scope of his impact on the 
field. 
The Petitioner claims several "original business-related contributions of major significance in the field 
related to emerging markets trading and risk management," including the following examples: 
• Developed novel software for efficiently running I l's proprietary ~I--~ 
prepayment model; 
• Demonstrated the profitability of investing in the Colombian peso through risk 
decomposition; 
• Single-handedly ranl l's investments in Brazil during the Brazilian financial 
crisis, generating profits for I Is institutional clients while most businesses 
were losing money in Brazil; and 
• Developed a model of Argentine hybrid bond pricing, enabling investors to properly 
manage the risk of investing in these novel bonds. 
The Petitioner asserted that his "original business-related contributions have had a widespread, major 
impact on the field of emerging markets trading and risk management as his analysis have directed the 
risk management and investment and trading decisions of thousands of U.S. institutions." The Petitioner 
claimed that his work had industry-wide effects. For example, he asserted that his work "increased the 
stability and liquidity of Colombia's currency" and "advanced the Argentine emerging market." 
The Petitioner submitted four letters that discussed some of the claimed contributions enumerated in his 
introductory letter. (Other letters offered more general praise for the Petitioner and his abilities.) The 
Petitioner also asserted that he disseminated his contributions through the written pieces discussed above. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had shown his work to be significant to his employer and its 
clients, but not to the field as a whole. The Director acknowledged the submitted letters, but did not 
consider them to be dispositive evidence of eligibility, and found that the letters lacked independent 
evidentiary support. 
4 
On appeal, as noted above, the Petitioner asserts that it is unreasonable for us to expect his proprietary 
work product to be distributed beyond his employer and its clients. The Petitioner contendsMhis "work 
influences the broader U.S. and global economies through its implementation byDand LJs clients," 
as shown by "letters from independent experts." 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as 
expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS 
is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. 
The submission of letters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of 
eligibility. Id. USCIS may even give less weight to an opinion that is not corroborated or is in any 
way questionable. Id. 
In this case, the letters that discuss specific claimed contributions are questionable because of similarities 
in structure and wording. Three of the letters discussed the same six contributions, in the same order, in 
wording that is similar and, at times, identical. An illustrative example is the discussion of Argentine 
hybrid bonds: 
[The Petitioner] developed models for the pricing and risk management of the new 
Argentine hybrid bonds when Argentina was allowed to return to the international capital 
market in 2015. Argentina's hybrid bonds are complex because of the country's past 
history of inflation issues. 
Attributed to the head of Trading and Sales a~._ ___ _. 
Argentina's return to the international capital markets in 2015 saw investors clamoring 
for the country's new issuance. Argentina has to issue hybrid bonds to give investors 
protection because they have a history of problems with inflation and interest rates .... 
[The Petitioner] developed models to provide investors with the correct pricing and risk 
management of these Argentine bonds. 
Attributed to the executive director of Emerging Markets at .... l ______ _.!Bank 
Post elections in 2015 ... , Argentina's long-awaited return to the international capital 
markets saw investors clamoring for the country's new issuance. Due to a bad history in 
inflation and interest rate management, Argentina has to issue hybrid bonds to give 
investors protection from these adverse events. . . . [The Petitioner] used his sophisticated 
models to provide investors the correct pricing and risk management of this bond. 
Attributed to the managing director of Emerging Markets Trading a~.__ ___ ___, 
A fourth letter, attributed to the managing director and head of Latin America Trading at .... 1 __ ......,.... 
discussed eight of the Petitioner's claimed contributions, in a different order, but again using similar 
language: 
5 
[The Petitioner] used his background in analytics to develop sophisticated models for 
pricing and risk management for the complex Argentine hybrid bonds that were issued 
when the country was emerging from its past economic woes. The hybrid bond that 
Argentina issued had to give investors protection from the country's previous issues with 
inflation and interest rates. 
These similarities in language affect the letters' evidentiary weight. See Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 
F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings 
based in part on the similarity of the affidavits); see also Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 489 
F .3d 51 7, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when 
an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). In 
evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its 
quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 
I&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted several more letters, attesting that no one 
in the Petitioner's position would disseminate proprietary work product, and that benefit toDand its 
client ultimately benefits the economy as a whole because Dis a major bank with large and important 
clients. The Petitioner repeats these assertions on appeal and lists the letters he had submitted to that 
effect. The Petitioner, however, does not cite any specific figures or show that he had submitted 
documentary evidence to establish the extent to which his work has had field-wide impact. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6458020 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a film and television director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner worked as a cameraman for Armenian! I TV and the Armenian! I Channel 
before founding his own production company, which produced tel~ograms, documentaries, and 
advertisements. The Petitioner seeks employment as a director forL___JArmenian Television.1 
Before discussing the merits of the case, the Petitioner contends that the Director imposed too high a 
standard of proof In this proceeding, the Petitioner must establish eligibility by a preponderance of the 
evidence. The "preponderance of the evidence" standard requires that the evidence demonstrate that 
the claim is "probably true," where the determination of "truth" is made based on the factual 
circumstances of each individual case. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) 
(quoting Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
The Petitioner asserts that his evidence meets this standard, and that, by denying the petition, the Director 
"applied a higher standard of proof" The Petitioner, however, does not elaborate or identify the higher 
standard the Director is said to have imposed. The truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. Thus, in adjudicating the petition pursuant to the preponderance of 
the evidence standard, a director must examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, 
and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine 
whether the fact to be proven is probably true. Id. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Prior to the denial, the Petitioner claimed to have met five criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
1 In a subsequent filing, the Petitioner indicates that he has worked as an appliance repairman since January 2019. 
2 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to display. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed criteria. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met any of the criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record contains copies of certificates that do not appear to be nationally or recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. Some are from municipal authorities, and the 
accompanying translations do not refer to the Petitioner's work as a director. One certificate refers to a 
martial arts competition; another refers to the Petitioner's "significant place in Latin American dancing." 
The Director noted the lack of "objective documentary evidence about the awards or prizes," and 
concluded that the "prizes or awards appear to be local or regional in nature." On appeal, the Petitioner 
disputes this characterization of the awards, and discusses two of the awards specifically. We will focus 
on these two awards. 
The Petitioner initially submitted a translated certificate, indicating that the publication._! _____ _. 
j I named him "best video graph er of the year" in 2006. The certificate is in Russian rather than 
Armenian. An article in an unidentified publication referred to.__ ___ ~ ______ __."only 
Russian language magazine." The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show the national or international 
recognition of awards from this minority-language publication. 
The Director requested more evidence about the Petitioner's prizes and awards. The Petitioner submitted 
a letter from the "Former Director" of I :J who affirmed the Petitioner's receipt of the 
aforementioned award, and stated tha~._ _____ _.hhe only Russian-language magazine published 
in th " ceased publication in 2008. The writer did not state the circulation! I 
~-~or establish that awards from that publication had any significance beyond the magazine's own 
readership. 
The Petitioner's res onse also included a translated copy of a certificate from the .__ _______ ~ 
.__ _ __, _________ .u...;:i;::nc:::::d;:.:ic:..::;a;.:,ting that the Petitioner won second prize for a "TV essay" in the 
2004 '.__ _______ ~ __ __. competition. The I f of the International 
Confederation of Journalists' Unions states that the.__-------~--~ competition involved 
participants from 15 countries. The official does not attest to the national or international recognition of 
the competition's second prize, and the Petitioner has not submitted independent, objective evidence of 
the award't reco1nition. A printout from the~'s website lists four awards: "Academy Recognition," 
"Medal of '"Big Medal o~ I" and a medal for "Veteran ofNational Television." The printout 
does not indicate that the Petitioner received any of these awards, or that thd I itself a1aches fcarticular 
significance to the prize that the Petitioner won. Background information about the does not 
establish that prizes or awards from thd I are nationally or internationally recognized. 
3 
The Petitioner has established that the eligibility pools are national for the I I prize and 
international for the I I prize, but national or international availability is not the same as national or 
international recognition. 
The Petitioner has not shown his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several articles and a website printout: 
• An Armenian-language website, not identified in the translation and not clearly legible in the 
submitted printout, summarized significant events in Armenian sports in 2006, and reported the 
winners of the I I awards discussed above. 
• A translated article i~ Bravo.am covered a screening of the film I I The article mentions 
the Petitioner three times: once to name him as the film's director; once to quote him about the 
making of the film; and once in a quotation from a singer, expressing appreciation for being 
invited to participate. The focus of the article is split between discussing participants in the film, 
and describing the charity! I that inspired the project. 
• Short articles on the websites ofEpress andArmenpress briefly covered a press conference about 
I land quoted the Petitioner regarding his short documentary about the charity. Photolure 
News Agency photographed the same press conference. 
• Two articles in The Armenian Mirror-Spectator covered benefit performances to raise funds for 
I I One article, after a concert inl I mentions the Petitioner once, identifying him 
as a "filmmaker [who] accompanied" one of the singers. The other article, previewing an event 
in I l named the Petitioner among "many accomplished Armenians" who support the 
charity. The articles do not discuss the Petitioner's films or indicate that the Petitioner had more 
than a peripheral role in the events. 
• The website of The Armenian Times previewed a new season of a dance competition program 
produced by the Petitioner's company, and interviewed a choreographer working on the project. 
Near the end of the article, the Petitioner is quoted and identified as "director of the program and 
founder of the company." 
The Petitioner also submitted a three-page document, identified as an article from thel 12013 
issue of Yerevan. The submitted document, however, contains no internal evidence of publication in 
Yerevan or any other magazine. It is not a photocopy of printed magazine pages, nor is it identifiably a 
printout from a website. The document includes a web address for the article, but attempts to visit the 
site show that the domain name is for sale. 
4 
Even then, the article is predominantly about the I I charity. The second-to-last paragraph of the 
three-page article lists the names of the Petitioner and several other individuals "who helped in the 
production of al !documentary." 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's name appeared in the submitted articles, but concluded: 
"The material only cites, quotes, or references the petitioner. There is no evaluation of the petition or the 
petitioner's work." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the submitted materials meet the requirements, because"[ e Jach news 
article explicitly references the Appellant and the title of his film or project being recognized." The 
regulatory standard, however, is that the published material must be "about the alien ... relating to the 
alien's work in the field." Materials that mention the Petitioner only briefly, or which identify him but 
do not pertain to his work, cannot satisfy this standard. 
The Petitioner contends that "it is sufficient for the publications to reference the Appellant and his work, 
as 'the published material need not reference the petitioner as a star.' Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 
(N.D. Ill. 1995)." The passage presented as a quotation does not appear in Muni, and there is nothing in 
Muni to suggest that an article need only include an alien's name and occupation to be "about" the alien, 
regardless of the context or the remaining content of that article.2 
The Petitioner has not submitted published material about him, relating to his work. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient~fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submitted several letters from colleagues and clients, attesting in general terms to the 
Petitioner's skill and the high profile of some of his projects. Prior to the denial of the petition, the 
Petitioner claimed that these letters satisfied this criterion as well as the criterion (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii)) discussed directly below. In the denial notice, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner had not established the major significance of specific original contributions. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion, but does not elaborate. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
effectively abandoned this issue and we will not further address this issue in this decision. See Sepulveda 
v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n.2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
2731, 2011 WL 4711885, at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 2011) (plaintiff's claims found to be abandoned when 
not raised on appeal to the AAO); see also Greenbriar, Ltd. v. City o_f Alabaster, 881 F.2d 1570, 1573 
n.6 (11th Cir. 1989) (stating that passing references to issues are insufficient to raise a claim for appeal, 
and such issues are deemed abandoned). 
2 With respect to this criterion, the Court in Muni stated: 
Under the INS' own regulations, all Muni need show is that there is "[p]ublished material about [him] 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to [his] work in the field for 
which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The articles Muni submitted, which appeared 
in various newspapers and hockey magazines, clearly fit this requirement; even the INS admits that some 
of the articles "discuss [Muni's] hitting ability and his record as a defenseman" (Admin.Rec. at 4). 
Id. at 445. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We will discuss the letters referenced above in the context of the claim that the Petitioner has performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
The record shows that the Petitioner plays a leading and critical role for the production company that he 
founded. The question is whether the company has a distinguished reputation. The concept of distinction 
is inherently comparative. Therefore, simply listing the projects that the Petitioner's company has 
undertaken does not show that the company has a distinguished reputation relative to other production 
compames. 
The general director of Armenia TV, "the highest rated television station in Armenia," stated that the 
Petitioner's company acquired the Armenian format rights to~-------~and I I and 
produced several successful seasons of the shows on Armenia TV. The official also stated: "Armenia 
TV cooperated with [the Petitioner] within the framework of [several] shows ... [that] were very 
popular." 
While a network official's statements are not without weight, the production and ratings of television 
programs are matters of objective fact rather than subjective opinion, for which primary documentation 
(such as contracts and reports from ratings services) ought to exist. (We note that the Director indicated 
that letters could suffice to establish the nature of the Petitioner's role for a given organization, but the 
Director did not indicate that letters would suffice to establish distinguished reputation.) 
In a similar vein, the Petitioner asserts that the adaptation of.__ _______ __, was "Armenia's 
highest rated television show," but he has submitted no documentary evidence to support this claim or to 
show how the Petitioner came to learn this information. 
More broadly, little of the Petitioner's work is directly documented in the record with first-hand evidence. 
The Petitioner relies mostly on letters that refer to his projects. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
printouts from Armenia TV's website, but those printouts do not appear to mention him, his company, or 
any of his productions. This lack of an evidentiary footprint is of concern in a petition for an immigrant 
classification that, by statute, demands "extensive documentation." Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Petitioner also contended that, by producing, directing, or filming programs, commercials, or events 
for various clients and charities, he performed in a critical role for those clients and charities. 
Representatives of those organizations attested, in letters, to the Petitioner's work on their behalf While 
these entities appreciated and complimented the Petitioner's efforts, the letters do not show how the 
Petitioner's contributions were critical, not merely helpful and beneficial. 
The Director concluded that the letters from employers, clients, and colleagues do not show how the 
Petitioner's role was leading or critical for "the organization or establishment as a whole." On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director, in this way, "incorrectly imposed an additional requirement" 
beyond the wording of the regulation. 
G 
We disagree with the contention that the Director imposed a new requirement. It appears, instead, that 
the Petitioner seeks to broaden the criterion beyond the wording of the regulation. A given alien's role 
must be leading or critical for a particular organization or establishment, rather than for one project, event, 
or division of that organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner's resume includes this statement: "In 1999 I was the personal video graph er of the I I ~-~I of Armeni~ I for two months. It played [a] role for me to become well known 
in [the] media field." On appeal, the Petitioner places new emphasis on this assignment, stating that it 
was "a critical position reserved for only the most distinguished and acclaimed in the field." The initial 
assertion that the position allowed him "to become well known" contradicts the later claim that the 
position was only open to videographers who were already "the most distinguished and acclaimed in the 
field." The Petitioner does not adequately explain how the role of a videographer is critical to the office 
of a high-ranking elected official, and the record offers minimal details about the Petitioner's work in that 
capacity. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director stated, without elaboration, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. 
The Petitioner cannot satisfy the regulation's specific reference to "artistic exhibitions or showcases" 
through the mere visibility, availability, or distribution of visual artistic works such as films and television 
programs. The Petitioner has not identified an exhibition or showcase established for the specific purpose 
of displaying his work, or a group of works including his works. As noted above, the record contains 
little objective, documentary evidence to directly establish the very existence of his work. Instead, the 
Petitioner has relied heavily on letters from individuals who attest that the Petitioner is a director. 
The Petitioner has not established the display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Beyond the regulatory criteria, the Petitioner asserts that "support letters from exceptionally significant 
Armenian public officials, artists, and celebrities ... meet[] the standard for comparable evidence ... 
under 8 C.F.R. Section 204.S(h)( 4)." The cited regulation provides that, if the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable 
evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility." The Petitioner does not show that the standard criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. Rather, he claims to satisfy several of them outright. The Petitioner 
has not adequately explained his contention that the comparable evidence clause applies in this matter. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7976686 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a financial trading firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary , a quantitative researcher , 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to give due consideration to the submitted 
evidence and did not apply the preponderance of the evidence standard to the facts presented. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes that a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a financial trading firm, currently employs the Beneficia as a quantitative researcher. 
The Beneficiary completed his doctorate degree in physics at University in 2016, and 
received his bachelor of technology degree in physics from the.__ _ _.Institute of Technology in 2011. 
He has previously worked as a graduate assistant in the physics department at I I University 
and as a quantitative summer associate" wit~ I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence establishing that the Beneficiary met two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to 
authorship of scholarly articles and high salary or other remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
and (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to published materials (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)) and original contributions of major 
significance (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on its submission of published 
articles in scientific journals that cite to the Beneficiary's own published papers. The Director noted 
that such articles do not satisfy the plain language of this criterion because such articles are primarily 
about the authors' own research and findings, not the Beneficiary or his work. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner, through counsel, states: "The criterion at 8 CFR 204.5(h) relating to 
published material about the beneficiary reads 'Published material in professional publications written 
by others about the alien's work in the academic field."' The Petitioner states that "based on a plain 
reading of the above, it is clear the Service has imposed evidentiary requirements beyond what is 
stated in the regulations." 
However, the language quoted in the Petitioner's brief is not the language found in the applicable 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Rather, the Petitioner has quoted the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(i)(3)(i)(C), an evidentiary criterion that applies to immigrant petitions for outstanding 
professors and researchers. The plain language of the applicable regulation requires "Published 
material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to 
the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought." We agree with the Director that 
scientific journal articles that include a citation to the Beneficiary's research among dozens of other 
citations do not qualify as published material about the Beneficiary. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence establishing that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has a beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that a beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claimed in its initial cover letter that the Beneficiary has made four original 
contributions of major significance, noting that although his published research is in the field of 
theoretical condensed matter physics, his findings have had "a major impact on related fields and 
industries." Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the novelty of the Beneficiary's 
research through recommendation letters praising him for the originality of his studies, the letters do 
not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact his research 
has had on the overall field. 2 
The first of the four contributions relates to the Beneficiary's research on.___~---------' 
systems, in which he "investigated two unique metrics used to understand the structure and [uantuml 
geography of systems:,__ ___________ _,metrics." I l of 
University explained that the Beneficiary "aimed to create a system withl !quantum distance 
measurements with locall I," noting that "such a system would represent a completely 
new frontier for studying the effects of the interaction between electrons in I I systems with 
I !quantum geometry." I I states that the Beneficiary established that thel I 
systems he studied had "several unique properties" and describes those properties. The Petitioner also 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
provided a letter from.__ ________ __. an assistant professor of physics at University of 
~====:::;--------,-, who co-authored the Beneficiary's published research in this area. ~ I ldiscusses their shared interest in the research, explaining that 1 I systems (systems 
where kinetic energy I I ... can provide important insights on the interplay of strong correlation 
effects and quantum geometry." He further explains that, prior to the Beneficiary's study, "the effects 
of different I O lmetrics in I !systems were largely ignored, despite their importance." I I summarizes the Beneficiary's research, emphasizes that it is "especially novel" and 
explains that he "introduced an exciting new frontier in the study of interaction effects in systems with I I geometry" which has "laid a strong foundation for future research." While both expert 
letters address the novelty of the research and generally note that it lays the groundwork for further 
studies, neither indicates that the Beneficiary's research has been regarded in the field as remarkably 
impactful or influential. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance 
as a result of three research studies focusing on I I which it describes 
as "an exotic phase of matter found in several different com ounds." The first of these studies 
involved a type ofl I known as theL..._ __ _,---,__ ____ ____J. I I 
.__ ____ __.I an associate professor at the University of.___~ ho co-authored the Petitioner's 
published research on this topic, states that "[a] particularly 
1nsighyul contribution by [the 
Beneficiary] was his recognition that the symmetry properties of the implied that each domain 
wall would have ~ I moment," a property very relevant to experimental studies." He further 
states that, based on the Beneficiary's research, "the field now has a much more comprehensive 
understanding of this complex state of matter." Similarly
11 I University professor I I I I notes that the Beneficiary's "detailed analysis of[ I inl I systems 
provided several key insights" that are "directly relevant to experimental physicists" and have 
provided "a strong basis for several additional studies." 
.__ __ ..,---~~~-~=~~---------~w-h-o_c=o---a=ut=h=o=r=ed=, the Beneficiary's 2014 
article ' ' discusses this research 
in his letter. He explains that the Beneficiary "evaluated whether ,----- .......... ____________ ...J 
an interesting state of matter he previously observed in.__~_~__.systems" could also be found in I I systems." I I summarizes the study, noting that the Beneficiary "theorercally I 
demonstrated the existence of analo s of the state in~ systems with high 
numbers, a first of its kind findin i hysics." He describes the study as "especially 
valuable to the field of,__ _____ _.physics and beyond because of its versatility" and notes its 
"significant implications for experimental physics." 
The Petitioner also provided an independent adviso 
of thq I Institute for the Physics o;::~;:_ .... _-_ ..... _-_-_-_-_~~m~~=~~----___Jt-"'-'===---, 
focuses on the Beneficiary's 2016 paper entitled '.__ __________________ ~ I t' I k describes the "novel research study," noting that the Beneficiary 
"studied the I I system" in order to "understand howl I chooses 
its minimum energy state near specific integer densities." I lstates that the Beneficiary's 
findings "were important for the field at large, as they were the first to demonstrate I I 
within thq !context." He further indicates that the research is "impactful, as it inspired 
similar studies on other components" and "has direct applications to experimental physics." D 
4 
~----~I also discusses the novelty of the Beneficiary's study, noting that he has found the 
Beneficiary's results "immensely useful in properly explaining various complicated experimental 
measurements." 
We agree with the Director's determination that the letters considered above primarily contain 
attestations of the novelty and utility of the Beneficiary's research studies without providing specific 
examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance in his field. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do 
not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 4 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. US. Att '.r Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not 
explain, for example, how the Beneficiary's research findings have been widely implemented or relied 
upon by others in the field, and do not sufficiently identify their significance and influence. General 
statements indicating that the Beneficiary's research is "pioneering," "impactful," or "of great value" 
are not sufficient without an explanation as to why the research is deemed by experts as a contribution 
of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's evaluation of the expert letters "fails to give any 
context to [the Beneficiary's] field ofresearch," noting that as a theoretical physicist his work "focuses 
on discovering the underlying, theoretical principles that make up the physical world." Further, the 
Petitioner states that "[ a ]rguably the foundational insights about our world provided by [ the 
Beneficiary] represent major contributions in their own right." The Petitioner previously submitted 
an two articles discussing the field of theoretical physics, including one titled I I I t published by the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. The article discusses theoretical 
physics as I I' and I l I t because it I I 
technologies of tomorrow." The article highlights major breakthroughs in theoretical physics that led 
to technological applications such as wireless communications, transistors, fiber optics, MRI 
technology, and lasers. It does not follow, however, that any published research in the area of 
theoretical physics should be deemed an original contribution of major significance. Here, the 
submitted evidence does not establish how the Beneficiary's own novel research has advanced 
theoretical physics to the extent that his finding are regarded as remarkably impactful or influential, 
either to other theoretical physicists, to those focused on experimental or applied physics, or to the 
larger scientific community. 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's research is "significant" because "it forms the basis on 
which other major developments in a wide range of fields are built." The Petitioner references a letter 
from the Beneficiary's current supervisor,! I and notes that the contributions discussed 
b~ I "represent[] only one example of how theoretical physics can be applied to result in 
tangible real world development." In his letter.I I a quantitative technologist, states that 
the Beneficiary's responsibility as a quantitative researcher is focused around "developing numerical 
methods that can automatically generate forecasting models with statistically robust forecast properties 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. 
5 
and design scientific experiments that can reliably identify profitable hyperparameters of such 
methods, making them viable for live trading." He goes on to describe "[t]hree major contributions 
of [the Beneficiary's] work that were of vital importance to [the Petitioner]." Althoug~ I 
states that the Beneficiary's "ongoing work has had a significant impact on [the Petitioner], as well as 
on the scientific community," he does not elaborate as to how these internal, work-related 
contributions to the petitioning financial trading company have been of major significance to either 
the Petitioner's industry or the scientific community. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that, in addition to the referenced letters, it provided a variety of 
other documentary evidence demonstrating the major significance of the Beneficiary's original 
contributions to the field of theoreticall I physics. Specifically, the Petitioner notes 
that it provided: the Beneficiary's overall citation record, as recorded by Google Scholar; copies of 
articles that cite to his published work; and information regarding the impact of the scientific journals 
in which his work has been published and cited. 
A review of the submitted articles that cite to the Beneficiary's research does not show the significance 
of his contributions to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the 
Petitioner rovided a 2014 article entitled 
~------------------~" published in Nature Communications, in which 
the authors cited to the Beneficiary's 2013 article published in Physical Review B.5 However, the 
authors of the article do not distinguish or highlight the Beneficiary's research findings from that of 
the other 42 cited papers. The evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that the submitted 
examples of citations demonstrate that that there are "countless studies and accomplishments in the 
scientific community" that are based on the Beneficiary's research, or that he has had a major impact 
on "the international scientific community at large." Although the record shows that other authors in 
the scientific community cited the Beneficiary's work, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that his work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a 
significant way. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that some of the articles that cite to the Beneficiary's work have been 
published in high impact publications such as Science and Nature, noting that "each of these 
publications represent valued sources of information in their respective fields." Generally, citations 
can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work. However, the fact 
that the Beneficiary has published articles that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, 
sufficient to establish that he meets all elements of this criterion. Publications are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." We acknowledge, 
however, that a petitioner may present evidence that a beneficiary's articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "6 
5 Although we discuss a representative example here, we have reviewed and considered each article that cites the 
Beneficiary's work. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 8. 
6 
The Petitioner argues that the citation rate for several of the Beneficiary's articles exceeds that of 
"average publications." Specifically, the Petitioner emphasized that, according to a 2017 report by 
Thompson Reuters' Essential Science Indicators (ESI), the average citation rate for all articles 
published in 2016 was 1.57 citations. The Petitioner asserts that, based on this ESI report, the average 
article in any scientific discipline receives between one and two citations from other scientists each 
year and publications with over 15 citations in their first year are in the top 1 % of publications. Based 
on this limited comparative data, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's own published papers 
must be considered "incredibly impactful." 
According to the Beneficiary's Google Scholar citation history, he has published one 2016 article with 
four citations, one 2014 article with six citations, and two 2013 articles with eight and fourteen 
citations, respectively. Relying on the Petitioner's own suggested average number of citations per 
year, we note that only one of the Beneficiary's articles appears to have an above-average citation rate. 
If the Petitioner claims that an "average" article would have between 6 and 12 citations between 2013 
and 2019, then the Beneficiary's own 14 citations achieved during that period has not been shown to 
be in the range of being highly cited, and does not support the Petitioner's claims that the Beneficiary's 
published work is "incredibly impactful." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's 
citation numbers and his overall number of publications, are indicative of an original contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
Although the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary "has made tremendously significant contributions to 
his area of expertise," this claim is not adequately supported by the submitted recommendation letters 
or citation evidence. While the record, including the reference letters, establishes that the Beneficiary's 
research has value and has received some attention in the field, it is insufficient to confirm that the 
impact or influence of his work has risen to the level of "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting to [a beneficiary's] 
contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013)(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion 
because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). The Petitioner has not sufficiently 
shown that his research -which has led to incremental advancements in the field, as such are expected 
in any original research -qualifies as contributions of major significance in the field. 
Accordingly, based on the relevant documents in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner submitted evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. The record reflects that the Beneficiary authored four articles that were published by the 
journal Physical Review B. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
7 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that 
the Beneficiary commands a salary or remuneration that is high relative to the compensation paid to 
others working in the field. 7 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner provided sufficient documentary evidence showing that the Beneficiary fulfills this 
criterion, and the Director's determination will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner stated on the Form I-140 that it has offered the Beneficiary an annual salary of$150,000 
and provided a "Confirmation of Employment Offer" letter dated August 2018, indicating that he "will 
be compensated at an annual salary of $150,000 or higher" under the terms and conditions of the 
immigrant petition filed on his behalf The Petitioner has not, however, submitted any supporting 
evidence of the Beneficiary's past earnings, such as recent paystubs or IRS Forms W-2 for a previous 
year, showing that he has already been receiving the stated annual salary. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not provided evidence that the Beneficiary "has commanded a high salary" as required by the 
regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). For this reason alone, we find the evidence 
insufficient to meet this criterion. 
We also note that, as evidence that the Beneficiary's offered salary is high in relation to others in the 
field, the Petitioner submitted a one-page printout from the Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Data 
Center's Online Wage Library. The data provided is for the "Financial Analyst" occupation 
(OES/SOC code 13-2051.00) in thel O lmetropolitan area and indicates a "Mean Wage (H-2B)" 
of $86,902 per year. The Petitioner asserts that the FLC's "Financial Analyst" title, which according 
to the provided evidence generally requires only completion of a bachelor's degree, encompasses the 
Beneficiary's occupational title of "Financial Quantitative Analyst," but does not submit evidence in 
support of that claim. In fact, on the Form I-140, the Petitioner identified the SOC Code for the 
Beneficiary's position as 13-2099, which applies to "Financial Specialists, All Other." 8 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the wage information for financial analysts 
constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison when determining whether the Beneficiary's claimed 
salary is high in comparison "in relation to others in the field." See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, and we will withdraw the 
Director's finding to the contrary. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 The Department of Labor classifies "Financial Quantitative Analysts" under the OES/SOC Code 13-2099.01. See O*Net 
Online, Summary Report for: 13-2099.01 -Financial Quantitative Analysts, https://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/l 3-
2099.01 (accessed on Mar. 18, 2020). The FLC data provided indicates that "Financial Analysts" are in O*Net JobZone 
4, requiring a bachelor's degree. A "Financial Quantitative Analyst" is in O*Net JobZone 5 and typically requires 
completion of a graduate degree. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Beneficiary has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification on the Beneficiary's behalf: intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, 
the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7955817 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a fashion and costume designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, determining that the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence of a one-time achievement , or, in the alternative, evidence that she satisfied at 
least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification . 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not acknowledge or address the grounds for denial of the petition or 
contend that the petition was denied based on any error on the part of the Director. Rather, the 
Petitioner submits a brief from counsel that was copied verbatim from counsel's July 10, 2019 letter 
submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) states, in pertinent part that "[a]n officer to whom an appeal 
is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
Here, the Petitioner has not contested any aspect of the Director's decision and has not identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact on the part of the Director as a basis for the appeal. 
Therefore , the appeal will be summarily dismissed. 
We note that the Director's eleven-page decision adequately addressed the evidence submitted with 
respect to each of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(ix) and explained why 
such evidence was insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. Further, the decision reflects that the 
Director took into consideration the Petitioner's response to the RFE, which is now re-submitted on 
appeal in lieu of a brief addressing the denial decision. The Petitioner was therefore given a sufficient 
explanation of the grounds for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i) , and a fair opportunity 
to contest the decision. We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As the petitioner has not identified an erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact in support of the appeal, the appeal must be summarily dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25052697 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAR. 31, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial eligibility requirements for this classification, either through 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that the individual's achievements have been recognized in the 
field. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The implementing regulation further states that the term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). It also sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, 
a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner, a native of Australia, has been working as a model since 2012 
and is currently represented by agencies in Australia, New Zealand, and New York. Her modeling 
experience includes runway, print and commercial work, most notably Fashion Week appearances in 
New York, London, Milan and Paris, magazine covers and editorial shoots, and commercial and 
promotional work. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that she can meet all ten of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. The Director determined that she met only the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), relating 
to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, and for the reasons discussed below, we conclude the 
Petitioner has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria and therefore does not meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she received the "STM I I Award" 1 at the 
Western Australian (WA) Fashion Awards in 2016, an event held as part oftheLJFashion Festival. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of this award but determined that she did not 
provide sufficient evidence to establish that the award is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award for excellence. In reaching this conclusion, the Director observed that the media 
coverage of the award ceremony appeared to be only local or regional in nature. 
1 The record reflects that "STM" refers to Sunday Times Magazine, a publication of The Sunday Times, a newspaper 
published in the state of Western Australia. 
2 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence 
in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national 
or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 
Appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for evaluating evidence in 
support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Prior to denying the petition, the Director 
issued a request for evidence (RFE), advised the Petitioner that these factors would be considered, and 
allowed her an opportunity to submit evidence such as the criteria used to grant the awards, national 
or international media coverage of the awards, information regarding the pool of nominees or 
competitors for the award, and any other relevant information. 
Although the Petitioner characterizes her STM Award as a "national award" we 
agree with the Director that the record contains insufficient evidence to establish that it satisfies this 
criterion. The record reflects that the media coverage of the WA Fashion A wards including the 
Petitioner's receipt of the STMI ward, appeared in Western Australian publications 
The West Australian, The Sunday Times and STM Magazine, as well as a few fashion biogs for which 
readership information was not provided. The Petitioner has not contested the Director's 
determination that media coverage of the award was local or regional in nature. 
We have also considered other relevant information pertaining to the Petitioner's award. The WA 
Fashion Awards event is described in the record as Western Australia's "only fashion industry awards 
night, run for the local industry by the local industry." While we do not question the prestige 
associated with the award, this description of the awards program as a "local industry" event does not 
offer support for the Petitioner's claim that the award is a nationally recognized award for excellence 
in Australia. 
As noted, both limitations on competitors and the criteria used to grant a prize or award are relevant 
considerations when evaluating the national significance of an award and whether a given award is a 
nationally recognized prize or award for excellence. Here, the evidence reflects that the pool of 
potential nominees for the STM ______ Award was limited to models who were signed 
with three modeling agencies based in Western Australia; this restriction further undermines the 
claimed national recognition and significance of the award in the field. The evidence indicates that 
these three agencies chose their own nominees based on unspecified criteria and that eight models 
nominated as finalists were then subjected to an online public vote by readers of the sponsoring 
publication, with the _____ being designated as a I I award. A submitted 
screenshot from the voting page indicates that the winner was selected byl I 
After considering evidence regarding the nature of the WA Fashion A wards event, the scope of the 
media coverage, the limitations on candidates or nominees for the award, and the method of selecting 
winners, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's evidence does not establish that her STM I I Award qualifies as a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
3 
for excellence in her field.2 Accordingly, we conclude that she did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership, and 
that such achievements are judged by recognized experts in the field. Membership requirements based 
on employment in a certain occupation, minimum education or experience, or payment of dues or fees do 
not satisfy this criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. See generally, 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that she could satisfy this criterion, but did not provide evidence 
of her membership in an association. In the RFE, the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to 
submit evidence of her membership in an association in her field and advised that such evidence should 
be accompanied by evidence of the criteria for membership (such as the association's constitution or 
bylaws) and evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' applications are 
recognized as national or international experts in the field. 
In response, the Petitioner indicated that she was submitting "material from Models.com" to satisfy this 
criterion and provided a screenshot of her main profile page on this website. In an accompanying letter, 
the Petitioner described Models.com as "a defining fashion industry news resource that highlights the 
models and the creative stars of the industry," and as a "daily must-read for fashion insiders, 
photographers, casting directors, agents, art directors, editors, models and model fanatics to stay up to 
date." 
The Director acknowledged this evidence but determined that the record did not establish that her 
membership or presence on Models.com satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Specifically, the Director emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide evidence that membership is 
based on outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides letters from four individuals who maintain Models.com profiles, 
including a model, a makeup artist, and two casting directors. These individuals explain how the 
Models.com community significantly benefits their careers in the fashion and entertainment industry. 
In response to the Director's determination that the previously submitted evidence did not address 
membership criteria or requirements for Models.com, the Petitioner states that the website "is joining 
pretty much everyone who is anyone," noting that the Models.com community includes over 25,000 
2 The Petitioner's response to the RFE also included evidence that she received a ______ award and an I I award in 2013, both awarded by Alpha Models. The Petitioner's appeal contains no reference 
to these awards. Further, the record contains no further information or evidence relating to the awards and therefore does 
not establish that they satisfy all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
4 
professionals, as well as 600 modeling and artist agencies and over 3000 members from verified brands 
or magazines searching for creative talent. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner's membership in the Models.com community satisfies 
the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
that she is a member in an association in her field that requires outstanding achievements as a condition 
for membership and that the persons who judge the achievements of prospective members are 
recognized national or international experts in the field. While the evidence submitted on appeal 
establishes that Models.com is a valued community in the Petitioner's field that offers benefits to both 
models and those looking to cast models in their creative and commercial endeavors, it does not 
establish that membership in the community requires outstanding achievements or that eligibility for 
membership is judged by recognized national experts in the field. The record lacks evidence of the 
specific requirements for joining the Models.com community and therefore does not establish that it 
can be considered a qualifying association in the Petitioner's field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
that satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed that she could satisfy this criterion but did not submit 
evidence in support of her claim. In response to the RFE, she provided: 
• Undated correspondence, addressed to the Petitioner and attributed to the proprietor of 
I I Studio, inviting the Petitioner to participate as a judge and model for the 
20161 I Search to be held in August 2016; 
• An unsigned letter dated May 26, 2020, also attributed to the proprietor ofl I 
Studio. The letter states the Petitioner had been booked for several catwalk shows 
during the annual I I Search events and that she "has been a judge at our 
model search in 2016." 
• An article titled Search Launch" published by The West Australian 
newspaper inc=]2016, which covered the launch of the 2016 Search 
competition. The article mentions the Petitioner as one of the "local beauties" who 
participated in a previous edition of the competition. 
• Captioned photographs of the Petitioner taken at the 2015 I lsearch event 
which identify her as a "special guest" and "former winner." 
The record on appeal contains some additional evidence regarding the Petitioner's relationship with I I Studio. The evidence indicates that she was one of the winners the model search in 
2013, that she had a with this business, and that she performed work for 
them in the past. However, the record does not include additional evidence confirming her 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field at the 2016 I I Search event or 
in any other capacity. As noted, the only evidence indicating her actual participation as a judge is a 
brief statement in a letter that does not bear the signature of the person to whom its attributed. If 
5 
testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to 
submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, there is no 
additional evidence corroborating the Petitioner's participation as a judge. 
In addition, we note that the Petitioner's description of the I I Search competition 
indicates that competitors "must have had no prior modeling experience." Therefore, even if the 
Petitioner had sufficiently documented that she participated as a judge at this event, the record does 
not establish that she was required to judge the work of others "in the same field" or "in an allied field 
of specialization." Rather, the record reflects that the persons who participate in the competition are 
not models. The record also lacks evidence as to what the model search competition entailed and what 
criteria were considered by judges in selecting winners. Without this information, we cannot 
determine whether judging this event required judging "work" in the field. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must not only identify and 
demonstrate their original contributions, but also establish their major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have demonstrably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner stated in her initial cover letter that she could meet this criterion but did not identify her 
original contributions in her field or indicate any specific evidence she was submitting to demonstrate 
her eligibility. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this criterion, and therefore, the 
Director concluded that she did not establish that she meets it. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she is submitting evidence of her "scholarly, artistic and athletic" 
achievements which have contributed to her success as a model. The newly submitted evidence 
documents her athletic achievements in martial arts and netball, her completion of a primary school 
course in first aid awareness, and various achievements she recorded during secondary school 
including certificates of French Language competence, certificates recognizing her participation in the 
arts, a certificate of completion for a peer support leadership course, and a Western Australian 
Certificate of Education which appears to be comparable to a high school diploma. 
Here, the Director reviewed the initial evidence, notified the Petitioner of deficiencies in an RFE, and 
advised her of what type of evidence she could submit in support of this criterion. As noted, the 
Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding to the RFE and now requests that we review 
additional evidence submitted on appeal. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in 
the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept 
evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
6 
The Petitioner also maintains that she previously provided "letters from companies showing her major 
significance in the field with her contributions," but does not elaborate or reference any specific 
evidence that she intended to be considered under this criterion. We have considered the reference 
letters in the record but conclude that they do not demonstrate how the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in her field. Specifically, the record contains reference letters from 
modeling agencies, brand managers, photographers and designers. Letters that specifically articulate 
how the person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent 
work add value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F .2 Appendix. 
The individuals who provided letters praise the Petitioner's professionalism, adaptability, work ethic, 
positive attitude, and her "high-end, international look," noting that these and other attributes have 
made her a sought-after model who "contributes to the sales of the companies she works with." 
However, general assertions that she contributed to sales of fashion or beauty products for individual 
companies do not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an "original contribution" that has a 
broader impact or influence in her field of endeavor. While several authors note the Petitioner's 
creativity and stated that she "continues to lead the modeling industry in new directions," these letters, 
fall short of identifying any specific original contribution the Petitioner has made to the modeling 
industry or how she has made a contribution that impacted subsequent work by others in her field, 
such that it could be concluded that her contributions were of major significance. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. First, the Petitioner must establish that she has authored scholarly articles in 
the field in which she intends to engage if she is granted status as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. The 
second area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 Appendix. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. Regarding 
the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the publication's 
circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish the publication's 
intended audience. Id. 
Although the Petitioner indicated at the time of filing that she can meet this criterion, she did not 
provide documentation of her authorship of scholarly articles. Her response to the RFE included 
7 
evidence that she served as a guest blogger for Style Voyeur magazine's website, participated in a 
for Oyster magazine, created a backstage diary for RUSSH magazine's website, 
and prepared a list of her top 10 career highlights in connection with her STM _____ 
award. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that her published work 
consisted of scholarly articles intended for learned persons in her field or that it appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, asserts that she submitted evidence regarding the social media following of the referenced 
magazines and provided sufficient evidence that her work appeared in qualifying media. However, 
the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that she did not provide evidence of the 
scholarly nature of her published work. We agree with the Director that the evidence does not meet 
all elements of this criterion. For example, the Petitioner provided copies of e-mails she received from 
Style Voyeur and Oyster magazines inviting her to participate in a guest blogger appearance and in a I I respectively. Style Voyeur asked her to include behind-the-scenes content from 
photo shoots and fashion shows, "cool pies of the city/cities you visit," candid pictures of the Petitioner 
with "other girls," and photographs of "casting outfits/selfies/your apartment/whatever." Oyster 
magazine similarly asked her to film an introductory video and suggested that she provide content that 
included videos of her getting ready for the day, traveling to a venue where she was working, "hanging 
backstage," and getting her makeup done. The Petitioner has not established that the content she 
created constitutes "scholarly articles" or that its intended audience was "learned persons" in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. In 
addition, it is the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate the organization or establishment, or the 
department or division for which she holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished 
reputation. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is ( or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F .2 Appendix. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she could meet this criterion but determined 
that her initial submission lacked an explanation or evidence in support of that claim. The RFE 
instructed the Petitioner to provide relevant evidence such as letters from prior employers with detailed 
information explaining how her role was leading or critical to an organization or establishment. 
8 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted: (1) e-mails and promotional materials confirming 
that the Petitioner's agency booked her to participate in a promotional photo shoot for the I I 
2014 charity event for the Western Australian I J (2) e-mail confirming she was booked in 
a runway show for thel !Foundation charity gala in 2018; (3) an e-mail addressed to the 
Petitioner inviting her to participate in a charity event for a Youth Focus group; and (4) e-mails from I I Models soliciting models from its roster to participate in its 2014 
charity event and in the Charity event. The Petitioner provided additional documentation 
confirming her participation in the events. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner documented her participation as a model in various 
charity events but determined that the record lacked the requested evidence of her leading or critical 
role for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 
Counsel's appellate brief emphasizes that the record contains casting and job confirmation emails, 
provides some additional background information regarding charity events in which the Petitioner 
participated, and mentions two additional events: a program launch event for the I I Fashion 
Festival and a I I Exhibition and Installation held in 2017. The brief also includes 
assertions that the Petitioner served as a I I at most or all of these events. Assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing 
Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be 
substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the evidence does not establish the Petitioner satisfies 
this criterion. While the evidence confirms the Petitioner's participation as a model at some notable 
charitable and cultural events, it does not establish whether or how she served in a leading or critical 
role for a specific organization or establishment ( or division or component thereof). Further, it is 
unclear whether she claims to meet this criterion based on a leading or critical role as a model for the 
agencies that represent her or based on her participation in a leading or critical role for the charitable 
organizations that held the referenced events, which makes it difficult to discern the "organization or 
establishment" in question. In this regard, we note that serving as a I I for a one-day event 
would not necessarily establish a person's leading or critical role within the organization or 
establishment that sponsors the event. 
Although specifically requested by the Director, the record lacks letters from individuals representing 
the Petitioner's employers or clients who have personal knowledge of the significance of her roles and 
who can speak specifically to such roles. Further, the Petitioner did not otherwise provide detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how her role for an organization or establishment, 
was leading or critical. For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence demonstrating that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner initially claimed she could satisfy this criterion but did not submit evidence in support 
of that claim. The Director advised her in the RFE that she would need to submit documentation of 
her annual earnings and evidence that would allow USCIS to compare her earnings to that of others 
9 
working in the field. If a petitioner claims to meet this criterion, then the burden is on the petitioner 
to provide appropriate evidence of their earnings or remuneration and evidence such as geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally, 6 USCJS Policy Manual at F.2 
Appendix . The Petitioner's response to the RFE included: 
• Copies of IRS Form 1042-S, Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding, 
indicating gross income of $14,740 in 2016 and $3906.66 in 2017. 
• Copy of her IRS Form 1040NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return for 2016 showing 
$3,456 in business income; 
• Letters from __________ _,indicating that this U.S. agency paid the Petitioner 
gross modeling fees of $18,425 in 2016 and $4883.33 in 2017. 
• Copies of year-end talent earnings statements from I I Models (Australia) for the fiscal 
years ended in 2016 through 2019, indicating annual earnings that ranged from a low of $1,845 
(2019) to a high of $11,061.15 (2017). 
The Director acknowledged this and other evidence of the Petitioner's past earnings but determined 
that she did not provide supporting documentation to demonstrate that her salary is high, or that her 
total remuneration is significantly high, in relation to others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the previously submitted evidence did not include 
"specification that shows what is high and low salaries" for models. She provides comparative wage 
data for models and fashion models in the United States and Australia from sources including 
CareerTrend.com, SalaryExplorer.com and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Where, as here, a 
petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Further, even if 
the Petitioner had submitted this evidence in response to the RFE, we observe that it does not support 
her claim that her salary "has far exceed[ ed] the average income of a working model in the United 
States." Rather, the record reflects that her documented U.S. and Australian earnings are below the 
average incomes reported in the newly submitted salary surveys. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) . 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits 
in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she appeared in an online music video for Sly Magazine and in 
promotional campaign videos/television commercials for I I I This evidence included e-mails confirming booking as well as screenshots from 
these projects. On appeal, the Petitioner references the previously submitted evidence of these "media 
shoots" as well as evidence that she appeared in videos published on the websites of Sunday Times 
Magazine and Hoture. The Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that documenting 
her appearances in promotional videos and commercials is not sufficient, in and of itself, to establish 
that she satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the types of evidence required by the plain language of this regulatory 
criterion, articulated a claim that this criterion does not apply to her occupation, or indicated that she 
was seeking to meet the criterion through comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 203.5(h)(4). While 
the evidence established that the Petitioner has appeared in advertisements for various companies, she 
has not shown, for example, that the success of the clients was attributable to her specific work as a 
model in their promotional campaigns or that her commercial appearances have attracted substantial 
audiences or generated significant sales. Further, as noted, evidence in support of this criterion must 
show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the perfonning arts. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence of such relative success. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the plain language requirements of 
this evidentiary criterion or that the evidence on which she relies is comparable to the evidence 
required by the criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the eight initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(iii) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(vii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve and will not address these remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 
(1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and 
decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 l&N Dec. 568, 576-77 
n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approval 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the beneficiary of an approved O-lB petition, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has 
approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior 
approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based 
on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have 
different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in 
the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means distinction. 8 C.F .R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But 
in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
11 
bound by a decision of a service center or district director. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 
No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 2000), ajfd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001) 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
Petitioner has achieved success as an international fashion model, the record does not support a finding 
that she has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 