U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6619081 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY. 1, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not received a major, internationally recognized award, and satisfied only two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in numerous national and international jiu-jitsu competitions. Because 
the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record reflects that the Petitioner received lesser nationally and internationally 
recognized awards for excellence and major media published material about her. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner met the awards and published material criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she received major, internationally recognized awards and, in the 
alternative, meets an additional criterion. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she garnered major, internationally recognized 
awards or satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The Petitioner argues: 
The regulations merely cite the Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, and Academy Award as 
examples of one-time achievements which enjoy major, international recognition. The 
World Championships hosted by the IBJJF [International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu 
Federation] do not need to gamer the same international recognition as an Olympic 
Medal or Nobel Prize. Nowhere in statute nor regulation does it state that the award 
must enjoy the same recognition as those enumerated. Rather, the Petitioner is only 
required to provide evidence that it is more likely than not that the IBJFF World 
Championship is a one-time achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award. Moreover, Pulitzer Prizes and/or Nobel Prizes do not exist in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu 
and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu is not among the martial arts included in the Olympic Games. 
Therefore, these awards do not exist for this field of endeavor. Instead, the World 
Championship is the highest award that an]one can win in the field of endeavor -and 
[the Petitioner] has won this award!._ __ _. (emphasis in original). 
2 
Contrary to the Petitioner's claims, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) provides that "[s]uch 
evidence shall include evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major intemal[ly] recognized 
award)." The regulation does not "cite the Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, and Academy Award as 
examples of one-time achievements which enjoy major, international recognition." However, the 
House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement.1 See 
H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at 
*6739. Moreover, we have consistently recognized other examples of a one-time achievement include 
the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. Further, we must look to Congress' 
intent that "admission under this category is to be reserved for that small percentage of individuals 
who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." Id. Thus, consistent with legislative history, 
a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards 
qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. 
Further, we are not persuaded by the Petitioner's claim that "[t]he World Championships hosted by 
the IBJJF do not need to gamer the same international recognition as an Olympic Medal or Nobel 
Prize." The selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is 
reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a 
familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope 
and internationally recognized, not just acknowledged within the field as the highest award. 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the IBJJF World Championship is the top 
tournament for competitors in jiu-jitsu. For instance, screenshots from bjjee.com state that "[t]he 
World Jiu-Jitsu Championship (commonly known as Mundials) is the most prestigious Brazilian Jiu­
Jitsu (BJJ) tournament in the world." Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I I I of International BJJ Inc., who claimed that "[ n Jot only is this the biggest 
tournament in the world -the IBJJF World Championship (known commonly as the Mundial) is 
widely regarded to be the uppermost competition in the sport." (emphasis in original). Moreover,c=J I ]indicated that the IBJJF World Championship has the highest weighted points in order to 
calculate IBJJF rankings. 
While she won the top award in jiu-jitsul I the Petitioner did not establish that receipt of such 
an award necessarily qualifies as a one-time achievement, nor are we persuaded that the top award in 
any field qualifies as a one-time achievement. 2 Furthermore, the fact that a major, internationally 
recognized award, such as an Olympic Medal, may not exist in a particular field does not mean that 
we should diminish the impressive nature of the one-time achievement and accept a lesser award. In 
cases where an alien cannot obtain a one-time achievement, including instances where it is not 
available in a field, "[ a ]n alien can also qualify on the basis of a career of acclaimed work in the field" 
by satisfying three of the ten categories of evidence. See H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Moreover, awards that may be internationally recognized in the field do not necessarily demonstrate 
1 Although in the 0-1 nonimmigrant context, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(iii)(A) provides an example of the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a major, internationally recognized award. 
2 On apP,eal, the Petitioner provides an article posted on flograpping.com indicating that she was "stripped of here=] 
titles for I I" 
3 
that they are also major or consistent with one-time achievements. In those instances, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for an alien to submit lesser internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the IBJJF World Championship enjoys broad, significant, 
and international press coverage. Instead, the petitioner provided screenshots from websites geared 
towards the jiu-jitsu field, such as ibjjf com, bjjheroes.com, and graciemag.com. The Petitioner, for 
example, did not offer evidence of wide media coverage from major publications and television outlets 
from around the world, comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as a Nobel Prize, 
Olympic Medal, and Oscar. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the IBJJF World 
Championship receives a similar level of attention or popularity by the general public rather than 
limited to within the jiu-jitsu field. 
Although the Petitioner did not show that her IBJJF World Championships qualify as one-time 
achievements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she did demonstrate that they meet the requirements for lesser 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 3 
Regarding the I [ the Petitioner claims that "[ m ]embers are chosen based on their 
extraordinary achievements, as judged by the IBJJF -the governing body of the sport, and a body that 
is undoubtedly made up of recognized national and international experts in the field." However, the 
record does not support her assertions and assumptions. The record reflects that the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from bjjheroes.com and ibjjfcom showing members of thd._ ___ _.t and their 
biographies an, records However, the screenshots do not provide the bylaws or eligibility 
requirements fot I. Further, she presented screenshots from IBJJF's 
website, ranging on various topics such as tournaments, news, rankings, and black belt listings that do 
not show the requirements for thel I In addition, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
graciemag.com and flograppling.com covering the IBJJF Awards Ceremony, which included the 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
4 
announcement of the~-------~ The screenshots, though, do not show thel ts 
membership requirements. Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not corroborate the Petitioner's claims 
and demonstrate thatj r requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national 
or international experts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I for IBJJF, who 
stated that "[to] be considered, athletes must have I I titles in the Adult Black 
Belt Division at the very least," and "these individuals must stand out amongst all the rest as the most 
dominant female competitors in the world." HoweverJ I did not offer any further 
information regarding thel ~s membership requirements, nor did he reference or cite to any 
bylaws, governing regulations, or any other authoritative requirements for the I I Moreover, 
although I I provided a minimum requirement of I I titles for 
consideration, he did not explain the other achievements that recognized national or international 
experts judge in order to determine eligibility. In fact,I I did not indicate whether 
recognized national or international experts conduct the judging for thd I, and if so, he did 
not identify those experts. 
As it relates to thel I, the Petitioner claims that she is a member of an elite group within 
IBJFF. The record reflects that she submitted a letter from thel dWorld Champion Ring 
A wards congratulating her for winning the IBJJF I I division in and D and inviting 
her to attend an awards ceremony recognizing champions from 1996 -2018. Moreover, the letter 
indicates that the Petitioner will be entered into the IBJJF I I World Champions Club. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence establishing that membership withl I 
requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For 
example, the Petitioner did not submit the bylaws or other evidence showing the membership 
requirements. Based on the offered evidence, entrance into I I is automatically based on 
winning the IBJJF championship in a particular year. Again, this criterion requires membership in an 
association that is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 Here, automatic admission 
into an association without being judged by recognized national or international experts does not meet 
this regulatory criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
5 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant pet1t10ns are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372953 Date: MAY 2, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established his intent to continue work in his area 
expertise in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
ofhis or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have performed as an actor in theater and television in Argentina. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (iii), Published materials in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one ofthese six, relating to published materials in 
professional publications or major media, and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision contains multiple errors and oversights 
and asserts that he meets five additional criteria, which we will discuss below. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met a second criterion, relating to the 
display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. However , he has not established , as required, 
that he satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
2 
I Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecialization for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires an individual to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specialization. 1 The Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility 
for this criterion. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility under this criterion based on his service as a talent advisor for fashion designer 
where he helped select runway models to participate in its 2019 Fall-Winter fashion 
show. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the show's producer who indicates his involvement in the 
event's model casting held at a hotel ballroom in Argentina onI I 2019, noting that the 
Petitioner and the rest of the jury "were in charge of the organization, planning, and selection of 
talents." The producer further stated that the Petitioner "was in charge of analyzing and weigh[ing] 
up the talents of each and every model based on their scenic attitudes artistic development and runway 
abilities, since the show had a futuristic theme." The Petitioner's evidence also included several 
articles commenting generally on the fashion show, which was held inl 2019. The articles do 
not reference the Petitioner or his role in the show's model casting. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion and 
concluded the evidence indicated he judged persons in an unrelated field instead of in his or an allied 
field. Specifically, the Director determined that the Petitioner's participation in the selection and 
casting of models for a fashion show was insufficient to show that he has acted as a judge of the work 
of others in the field of acting, his claimed field of specialization. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination, noting that "his knowledge as an 
actor and his vast experience across different platforms make him an ideal individual to judge the 
artistic talent of each model and their potential within the entertainment industry." He further argues 
that the Director conflated "profession" with "field," and asserts that modeling and acting fall within 
the same field of arts and entertainment. 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. Regardless of the field, the judging activities must be clearly 
described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence should demonstrate with specificity 
whose work and what type of work the individual judged. 
The Petitioner did not establish how participating in a talent casting to select runway models for a 
fashion show is tantamount to participating as a judge of the work of others. Although the show's 
producer stated in his letter that jurors were tasked with selecting talents through a model casting, he 
did not mention that the jury panel was responsible for scoring contestants or otherwise selecting 
winners. The record lacks official guidelines or rules for the event indicating the specific 
responsibilities for a juror, and there is no evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged 
the work of individuals in the same or an allied field. For example, while the producer indicates that 
1 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
the Petitioner served as a jury member and was a "key evaluator" in the ultimate selection of33 models 
to participate in the show, it is unclear if the Petitioner's role as an evaluator actually required the 
Petitioner to judge the work of individuals, such as assigning points or determining winners, rather 
than merely moderating or engaging in discussions with other jury panel members regarding the 
selection of models. As constituted, the record does not establish the nature of the Petitioner's 
participation in the event, the names of the individuals whose work he judged, the competitive 
divisions or categories, if any, to which he was assigned, or the selection criteria. Merely submitting 
a letter stating he was a jury member, without evidence demonstrating who he judged or the nature of 
the event, is insufficient to establish eligibility for this regulatory criterion. Without further 
information or corroborating documentation, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the letter is 
sufficient to establish that he judged the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, although the record contains press articles about the producer's fashion show held in 
2019, there is no discussion of the model casting held one month prior to the show in which the 
Petitioner participated. The Petitioner did not provide copies ofpublished press releases or any other 
supporting documentation regarding the I 2019 model casting, his judging activities or the 
nature ofthe event he claims to have judged. Therefore, although we have considered the testimonial 
evidence discussed above, the record lacks specificity and corroborating evidence of the Petitioner's 
role in the model casting and is insufficient to establish that his activities involved judging the work 
of others as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As such, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
While the Director concluded otherwise, the record contains sufficient documents demonstrating that 
the Petitioner meets this criterion, which requires a showing that his work was artistic in nature and 
was on display at artistic exhibitions or showcases.2 
In the RFE, the Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." In response to 
the RFE and again on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's interpretation that the plain 
language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists was erroneous, and 
we agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a 
given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed 
be artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As such, certain exhibitions or 
showcases featuring the work of performing artists may meet the plain language of this regulation. 
Here, the record reflects that the Petitioner performed as an actor in numerous theater productions in 
Argentina, and submitted evidence demonstrating that the venues where his performances were 
rendered are artistic in nature. In light of the above, the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
2 See id. (stating that officers should use the common dictionary definitions of"exhibition" and ""showcase" in evaluating 
this criterion). 
4 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a leading or critical role for various theater "establishments" 
such as I Iwhere he played the lead role of II He also 
noted that the accom an in ress articles confirmed his leading and critical roles in both I 
The Petitioner asserts that the press articles, 
accompanied by the recommendation letter fro ________ demonstrate that he meets 
this criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his 
theatrical performances and discussed the recommendation letter he provided. However, the Director 
determined that the evidence did not establish the Petitioner's leading role or demonstrate that his 
performances contributed in a way that was of significant importance to the theaters in which he 
performed. 
The regulation requires a Petitioner's role to be leading or critical "for organizations or establishments." 
Here, while the Petitioner has had lead roles in the above-referenced projects, he did not demonstrate 
how the plays in which he has appeared qualify as organizations or establishments consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. Therefore, the Petitioner's acting credits and articles that mention these roles are 
not sufficient to meet this criterion. 
We have also reviewed testimonial evidence in evaluating whether the Petitioner meets this criterion, 
specifically the letter froml Iwriter and director of who 
confirms that the Petitioner held a lead roles in this play. Although his letter praises the Petitioner's 
talent, noting that he is a "good artist with an innovative approach to acting," his statement does not 
offer detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the Petitioner's role for this 
production was leading or critical. Therefore, even if we determined that he held a leading or critical 
role for a distinguished production, additional evidence would be required to meet the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that the theaters in which he 
performed his roles have distinguished reputations. However, the record contains insufficient evidence 
to establish that the Petitioner held a leading position or essential role for the theaters. For instance, the 
record does not contain evidence describing the hierarchy of the theaters or explaining where the 
Petitioner's claimed position fit in the overall structure ofthe theaters. Moreover, the evidence of record 
did not demonstrate how his performances in the plays contributed to the successes or standings of the 
theaters. While the evidence of record confirms the Petitioner's performances in plays, the record is not 
5 
supported by detailed, probative information demonstrating the leading or critical role he performed for 
the theaters. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he has received a high 
salary, or other significantly high remuneration, based on a comparison with others in his field in 
similar positions and geographic locations. 3 
The Petitioner provided copies of contracts for work in individual television and film projects along 
with a summary of each project and its remuneration. His claim that he has commanded a high salary 
is primarily based on the daily wage or flat rate payments he has received for his work on certain 
projects. The record does not contain evidence of his overall salary and other remuneration from all 
sources for any given year, nor is it clear based on the evidence submitted how frequently he is engaged 
to work on a project-by-project basis. Several of the projects documented in the record through 
contracts, as summarized in the document entitled "sampling of contracts," required a short 
commitment of one day, with numerous other "campaigns" lasting approximately 12 months. 
As noted by the Director, although the Petitioner submitted a summary of the contracts in English, 
which identified the project, duration, and wage paid, the Petitioner did not submit certified 
translations for each ofthe contracts submitted. Despite being informed ofthis evidentiary deficiency 
in the RFE, the Petitioner declined to provide the requested translations. Any document in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The 
translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner 
did not submit a properly certified English language translation of each contract, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's 
claims. 
The Petitioner also provided comparative salary data from the Bureau ofLabor Statistics (BLS), which 
shows that actors in the United States earned a mean hourly wage of $39.84 in 2016, with the 75th 
percentile earning at least $44.36 per hour. 4 In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this 
criterion, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that he has commanded a high 
salary compared to other television and theater actors based on the evidence of payments he received 
for individual projects,. As noted, while the Petitioner submitted various forms of evidence in support 
of this criterion, the record does not clearly show his total salary or total remuneration for his work as 
an actor in any given year. Further, the record contains no evidence regarding salaries of actors in 
3 See id. (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish 
that a salary is relatively high). 
4 On appeal, the Petitioner also submits 2021 salary data for actors/performers from the BLS. 
6 
Argentina that could serve as a basis for comparison had the Petitioner offered evidence of his annual 
salary, or that his compensation, in total, is high compared to others in the field. 
Thus, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's 
commercial success in the performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box 
office receipts reflect the individual's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 5 Fulfilling the criterion is not simply a matter of demonstrating credited 
involvement in a commercially successful film or show. 
Here, the Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on evidence demonstrating high attendance 
at his playl IIn support of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted a 
press article stating that"[m ]ore than 5000 people have already seen them!" The Petitioner also claims 
high viewership for a television projectJ in which he engaged, and submitted articles 
regarding the rating points and total views of this production. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." While the Petitioner 
has appeared in plays and television programming, he has not shown that the success of those 
productions was attributable to his specific work as an actor. The record contains no evidence of sales 
in the form of box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his theatrical or televised performances have 
attracted substantial audiences. In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved 
in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 6 Here, the record does not include evidence identifying the 
Petitioner as having commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is the evidence 
sufficient to demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned plays or television 
programs in which he appeared were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. 7 
The Petitioner also failed to provide evidence of his commercial successes in the performing arts, 
rather than the successes of performances in which he took part. The record contains no evidence that 
demonstrated how the successes of these performances could predominantly be attributed to him. As 
a result, the Petitioner has not provided qualifying evidence under this criterion, and consequently has 
not established that he meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
5 See id .. 
6 See id. 
7 For example, with respect to the programl lin which he acted, the Petitioner has not shown that its 
television ratings or viewing audience increased significantly once he joined their acting cast. 
7 
B. Intent to Continue to Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding his intent to continue working in his 
claimed area of expertise. 8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are 
not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act requires "the alien to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability." In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S) states that "the petition must be accompanied 
by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expe1tise." See also 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2) (providing that to qualify as a person of extraordinary ability, the beneficiary must 
intend to continue work in the area of his or her expertise). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 02, 2024 In Re: 30728952 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cinematographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by meeting 
at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations . The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States has substantial prospective benefits for the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a two-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also; Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-392 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states he has worked in Kazakhstan's film and television industry since 2013 and earned 
a certificate in cinematography in 2017. 1 The Petitioner indicates he intends to open his own U.S. 
company to produce commercial and video clips, to film a documentary, and to attend the Los Angeles 
Film School to study directing. The record shows that, after filing the petition, he worked on several 
U.S. film projects as an actor and production assistant. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement. Accordingly, he must submit evidence meeting at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), by providing evidence that his work has been displayed at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. Therefore, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he satisfies at least 
two additional criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to 
demonstrate that he meets five additional criteria: 
• Published materials about him in major media, relating to his work in the field, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
• Original artistic or business-related contributions of major significance in the field, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
• Authorship of scholarly articles, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); 
• Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation; 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); and 
• High salary or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others in the field, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
1 We observe that the record does not contain a complete list of the Petitioner's film and television credits. He provided 
screenshots from Y ouTube for three ofhis projects showing that he was credited as an "artistic lightener" on the television 
series and as "playback" for the television seriesl I 
2 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's vork in the field for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an article titled I 
published online by New Television (https://www.novoetv.kz) on 2021 The article, an 
interview with the Petitioner, is about him and relates to his work in the film and television industry. 
However, the initial submission did not include evidence to establish that this website qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media, as required by the plain language of the 
regulation. 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner stated that "Novoe TV is a Kazakh TV 
channel" whose website receives 104,157 visitors per month. The Petitioner stated that this 
"popularity index" was obtained from the website Similar.web but did not submit any corroborating 
documentation from Similar.web, or any other evidence relevant to this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to support his claim 
that the article was published in major media. In evaluating whether a submitted publication qualifies 
as major media, relevant factors include the relative circulation, readership or viewership ofthe source 
that published it. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual (providing guidance on evaluation ofinitial evidence ofextraordinary ability under the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)). On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the previously submitted evidence 
was sufficient to demonstrate that the New Television website qualifies as major media. 
The Petitioner relies on an uncorroborated claim regarding the number of monthly visitors for the 
website that published the submitted article. Even ifwe accepted this information without supporting 
evidence from its purported source (Similar.web), we cannot determine based on a website traffic 
figure alone whether the New Television website is a qualifying form of media under this criterion. 
The record does not, for example, include its relative ranking among similar media in Kazakhstan or 
provide any other basis for comparison to support the Petitioner's claim that the website qualifies as 
"major media." 
Therefore, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet his evidentiary 
burden to establish the article was published in major media. Further, the Petitioner does not claim 
the article was published in a professional or major trade publication or submit evidence that would 
support such a claim. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
For fields outside the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for "learned persons" in a 
given field, a term that includes all persons having profound knowledge of a field. If the record 
demonstrates that a submitted article was written by the petitioner and qualifies as a scholarly article, 
3 
then we evaluate whether the article appeared in a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner initially submitted the following evidence in support of his assertion that he authored 
scholarly articles in his field: 
• Article titled 
published by the Russian web portal "Life Star" (life-star.ru) i 2021, which identifies 
the Petitioner as the article's author. 
• Article titled ____________ _.published by "Sub-Culture" web portal 
in 2021, which appears to identify another individual ______ as the 
article's author. 2 
In the RFE, the Director observed that one of the two articles did not clearly identify the Petitioner as 
the author. Further, the Director advised that the initial evidence did not establish that either of the 
submitted articles was written for and intended to be read by learned persons in the Petitioner's field. 
Finally, the Director noted that the Petitioner did not provide evidence regarding the websites that 
published the submitted articles and therefore did not meet his burden to demonstrate that the articles 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Director provided a 
list of evidence the Petitioner could submit to address these evidentiary deficiencies. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided brief descriptions ofthe Life Star and Sub-Culture web 
portals, stating that the former is "a daily updated magazine about the most interesting in the world of 
Russian and foreign show business," and the latter is an "online guide to contemporary culture." The 
Petitioner also included statements regarding the monthly website traffic for both websites, indicating 
that he obtained the data from Similar.web. His response did not address the Director's question 
regarding the authorship of the article or include any 
supplemental evidence, such as evidence to corroborate the claimed website traffic and additional 
information about the publications and their intended audience. 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director emphasized that the record 
does not establish that he authored the article I IThe Director 
further determined that there was insufficient evidence to establish that the other article appeared in a 
publication that qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In reaching 
this conclusion, the Director advised that the Petitioner's unsupported statement regarding website 
traffic for Life Star was insufficient to demonstrate that this website qualifies as major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he provided sufficient evidence to establish that the Life Star web 
portal is a major media source and emphasizes that his previous letter included information regarding 
its monthly web traffic that he obtained from Similar.web. He further contends that the Director 
2 The byline for the article names this individual as the author. Below the article's title, there is a reference to the Petitioner 
as a "film reviewer and cinematographer," a link to his website, and a captioned photograph of him. We note the body of 
the article begins in the middle of a sentence and discusses only seven films, which suggests that one or more pages may 
be missing. 
4 
improperly discounted the article noting that his name "appears 
multiple time on the byline of the article." 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that 
satisfies this criterion. While we acknowledge that the article 
includes a reference to the Petitioner, it does not clearly attribute authorship to him given its inclusion 
of a byline identifying another individual as the article's author. 
With respect to the Petitioner's claim that the Life Star web portal qualifies as major media, we note that 
the Director specifically requested "documentary evidence to establish that the publications in which the 
submitted articles appeared are professional publications, major trade publications or other major 
media." As such, the Petitioner's uncorroborated statements regarding website traffic data, which he 
claims he obtained from Similar.web, are not sufficient. As noted above in our discussion ofthe criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), even ifwe accepted this information without supporting evidence from its 
purported source (Similar.web), we cannot determine based on a website traffic figure alone whether the 
Life Star website has a relative readership or viewership that qualifies it as major media. The record 
provides no basis for comparison of this website with other similar media in Kazakhstan. 
Finally, although not addressed in the Director's decision, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
submitted articles are scholarly articles intended for an audience of learned persons in his field. Both 
articles, based on their contents and the brief descriptions of websites that published them, appear to 
be intended for a general audience. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, or for a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
Evidence of experience should consist of letters from employers and should contained detailed 
information specifically addressing how the person's role was leading or critical. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). In evaluating whether an individual has served in a leading 
role, we evaluate whether the submitted evidence establishes that the person, based on their job title, 
duties, and other evidence, was a leader within an organization or establishment. A critical role 
requires evidence that the individual has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. Id. 
The Petitioner did not claim eligibility under this criterion at the time of filing. In response to the 
RFE, the Petitioner submitted evidence for consideration, including a letter from L-M-, a line producer 
for the I Iproject I land a letter from M-A-of I The 
record reflects thatl lhired the Petitioner to work as a production assistant in 
March 2023, nearly two years after he filed this petition. A petitioner must establish that they are 
eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(1 ). While the letter from L­
M-speaks highly of the Petitioner's skills, professionalism, and contributions tol Ithis evidence 
cannot establish that he met this criterion when he filed this petition in July 2021. 
5 
We have considered two letters provided by M-A-of In her initial letter dated 
July 12, 2021, she mentioned the Petitioner's work on the television projects 
M-A-'s letter mentions the Petitioner's talents, his "honesty, accountability and trustworthiness in 
professional settings," his reputation as a "team player," and his "time management skills." While the 
letter describes the Petitioner as a "great leader" it does not elaborate on how he held a leading role 
for either of these projects or for I las a whole, nor did it discuss how his role was 
critical to the outcome of the company's activities. In fact, the letter does not specifically state what 
title or role the Petitioner held with respect to either television project or what duties he performed. 
In a second letter submitted in res onse to the RFE, M-A-mentions that worked 
with the Petitioner on '-------------------------' She states that
"filmmakers play a crucial role in the development of the film industry," and that the Petitioner "is a 
key participant in the development of the film industry." While M-A-'s letter praises the Petitioner's 
creative, technical, and artistic abilities, it does not address his specific role or duties on the listed 
television projects, his specific contributions to these projects, or explain how his role was leading or 
critical to the ______ organization. Rather, M-A-speaks broadly of the types of 
responsibilities generally held by filmmakers. Further, although she refers to the Petitioner as a 
"talented cinematographer," it is unclear he was credited as the cinematographer or director of 
photography for these projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director, who discussed only the letter from L-M-, overlooked 
other evidence relevant to his eligibility under this criterion, and only considered his latest role as a 
production assistant. He specifically points to the letters from M-A-, already addressed above, and 
those provided by H-K-of K-M-of and S-S-, an 
industry professional who attests that he worked with the Petitioner on several different productions. 
The letter from H-K-states that she has worked with the Petitioner on the U.S.-based productionD 
for "the past couple ofyears." However, other evidence in the record indicates 
that the Petitioner joined this project as a production assistant in 2022, well after the filing of the 
petition. Again, a petitioner must establish that they are eligible for the requested benefit at the time 
of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The letter from K-M-states that the Petitioner worked with ______ a film and television 
studio, on eight projects between 2014 and 2020. He describes the Petitioner as a hard worker and 
fast learner, and praises his focus, professionalism, energy, sense ofhumor and positive demeanor. K­
M-'s letter does not, however, provide detailed and probative information that specifically addresses 
how the Petitioner's role forl Iwas leading or critical based on his title, job duties, 
or contributions of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities. 
Finally, the letter from S-S-indicates that he has worked with the Petitioner on various television and 
film productions with several different production companies in Kazakhstan. S-S-does not state he 
is writing on behalf of a specific organization that employed the Petitioner in the past, nor does he 
identify the specific roles the Petitioner held with respect to the listed projects. Like the other 
colleagues and employers who provided letters in support of the petition, S-S-praises the Petitioner's 
personal attributes, technical and artistic skills, knowledge of film production, and dedication to his 
craft. He describes the Petitioner as a "team player who offers valuable contributions to any business" 
6 
and "the most talented cinematographer" he has known. However, the letter does contain the type of 
detailed and probative information needed to demonstrate that the Petitioner held a leading or critical 
role for an organization or establishment based on his specific duties and contributions. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Petitioner has not met his burden to show that he has performed 
in leading or critical roles for the organizations that employed him. Accordingly, we need not evaluate 
whether such organizations have a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not established that he 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In evaluating eligibility under this criterion, USCIS considers evidence that may include, but is not 
limited to: a petitioner's tax returns, pay statements or other evidence of their past salary or 
remuneration for services; contracts, job offer letters or other evidence of prospective salary or 
remuneration for services; and comparative wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as 
geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted the following evidence: 
• A letter from K-M-of who states that his company paid the 
Petitioner $10,000 for his work on the film 
• A letter from A-A-, vice president of ________ who states that his company 
paid the Petitioner $5000 per project for various three-month projects that included 
• A letter from M-A-of _____ who states that the Petitioner earned $3,000 for 
his work on I lover the course of 2.5 months on set. 
• A letter from A-L-, who states he was the Petitioner's colleague on the filml Iand 
that the Petitioner "earned $1,400 per month in 2018." 
• A partially translated chart described as a "statistical report about average monthly salary 
in arts and entertainment in Kazakhstan." 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted letters from previous employers and 
colleagues did not provide sufficient evidence of his actual salary or other remuneration. Further, the 
Director informed the Petitioner that the submitted "monthly salary report" did not cite a source for 
the salaries provided or "indicate in any way where they obtained their numbers." The Director 
requested that the Petitioner provide additional evidence, such as foreign tax documents corroborating 
his income earned outside the United States and geographical or position-appropriate compensation 
or wage surveys. 
In response to the Director's determination that he did not provide sufficient evidence of his actual 
income, the Petitioner explained that "cinema is a project work, and the salary is different." He 
emphasized that "letters from project customers were provided" to document the amount he earned for 
each project but did not submit any additional evidence regarding his past salary or other remuneration. 
7 
The Petitioner also submitted salary information from the website Mojazarplata.kz, which he describes 
as "a unique project that provides information on wages and working conditions for 1,600 professions 
in 20 industries" based on data received "from all over Kazakhstan." The screenshots from the website 
identify the occupations of "film, theater or other related producers" and "legal, humanitarian and 
cultural professionals." The average reported salary is KZT 191,962, and the maximum salary reported 
is KZT 323,143 (approximately $712 per month). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, noting that the submitted letters 
do not sufficiently document his actual earnings for any given period and do not qualify as supporting 
financial documentation. The Director further observed that the comparative wage data from 
Mojazarplata.kz does not support the Petitioner's claim that he has commanded a high salary as a 
cinematographer because it does not provide comparative wage data for his specific field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director improperly rejected the salary information he 
provided from Mojazarplata.kz and contends that they required "an unrealistically high level of 
specificity by stating that the salary information provided for 'film, theater and other related producers' 
is not relevant for cinematographers." The Petitioner further contends that he provided a reasonable 
explanation for his inability to provide "standard wage documentation," given the project-related 
nature of his work. He maintains that the previously submitted letters demonstrate that he received a 
high salary in relation to other cinematographers. 
While we acknowledge that persons in the Petitioner's field may not typically work in permanent 
salaried positions, he has not adequately addressed the unavailability of any type of supporting 
financial documentation of his past earnings. While he may not be able to produce copies of weekly 
pay statements or the foreign equivalent of an IRS Form W-2, it is reasonable to conclude that he 
would have some documentary record of his own prior income either in the form of invoices for his 
services, payment receipts, prior contracts or deal memos, bank deposits, or income reported on a tax 
return. Similarly, it is reasonable to determine that his prior employers would maintain financial 
records of crew expenses for their film and television projects. His suggestion that it is unreasonable 
for USCIS to expect any type of evidence beyond letters from prior employers is not persuasive. 
In addition, the letters the Petitioner submitted contain inconsistencies that undermine their probative 
value. For example, the letter from A-A-ofl Istates that the Petitioner worked 
on several projects for his company, including the filml Ithat this and other projects each 
lasted three months, and that the Petitioner was paid $5,000 per project. The Petitioner stated in his 
own affidavit that he worked on I I from 2020-2021 and that "the production took about a 
year." The letter from K-M-of Istates that the Petitioner earned $10,000 for his 
work on I I We cannot determine, based on these inconsistent statements, what the 
Petitioner earned for his work on this film or how much time he devoted to this project. 
With respect to the salary data the Petitioner provided from Mojazarplata.kz, we note that it is unclear 
from the evidence provided whether the salary data provided is for the occupation of "film, theater or 
other related producer" or for the broader classification of "legal, humanitarian and cultural 
professionals" as both occupations are identified on the submitted screenshots. We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's assertion that he could not obtain specific salary information for the occupation of 
"cinematographer." However, we note that salary surveys that rely on broad occupational categories 
8 
that include multiple occupations or multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to 
others in the field. See generally, 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not sufficiently document his past 
earnings. Therefore, even if we concluded that the submitted comparative wage data provides an 
appropriate basis for comparison for the Petitioner's claimed occupation of cinematographer, the 
evidence would be insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the four evidentiary criteria discussed 
above. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address 
this remaining issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, 
federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results 
they reach); see also Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. l O(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 2, 2024 In Re: 31049790 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four ofthese criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only two: judging the work ofothers at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional 
criteria, relating to original contributions of major significance and leading or critical role. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Petitioner that he satisfies the leading or critical role 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 1 The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the basis for denial of 
the petition through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third initial 
criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. 
The Director must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reason for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 The record includes documentation indicating that as Acting President and Vice President for Academic Affairs ofG-U­
S-T-, the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15782327 
Motion On Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, agreeing 
with the Director that the Petitioner had not satisfied at least three initial criteria. We reserved the 
issue of substantial prospective benefit. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will grant the motion in part, but the appeal 
will remain dismissed. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a._l ___ __.I painter who trained in his native .... 1 ---~I before relocating to the 
United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
2 
The Director concluded, and we agreed, that the Petitioner meets criterion (vii), relating to display. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria numbered (i), (ii), and (ix). The 
Petitioner does not contest our conclusions regarding the criteria numbered (iii) and (viii), and 
therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 
The Petitioner submits relevant new evidence on motion, and therefore we grant the motion in part. 
For the reasons explained below, however, we will not approve the petition. Also, in addition to 
submitting new evidence, the Petitioner states that he "will also rely on evidence previously submitted 
in support of his petition," but the only purpose of a motion to reopen is to introduce new facts, along 
with supporting evidence. Therefore, while the motion includes frequent references to evidence 
submitted previously, revisiting such evidence does not fall within the compass of a motion to reopen. 
Allegations that the prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at that time would 
belong in a motion to reconsider, which the Petitioner has not filed. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his "honorable mention 
award" from an Oil Painters of America (OPA) Online Showcase is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. We noted that OP A's characterization of its own awards is not evidence 
of recognition beyond the awarding organization. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional materials about the award, but these materials are all from 
OPA (such as a letter congratulating the Petitioner on the "wonderful achievement" of "winning an 
Honorable Mention A ward"). Private correspondence from the awarding entity does not demonstrate 
national or international recognition of the Petitioner's honorable mention award. The Petitioner 
contends that it "do[ es] not make the slightest sense" for us to conclude that an "organization is 
prestigious but the awards it gives are not or suppose that OPA has awards of different qualities." But 
the regulation requires recognition of the awards themselves, which is not the same thing as the 
reputation of the awarding organization. Also, different awards from the same organization might not 
enjoy the same level of recognition. Therefore, evidence about higher-level prizes from OPA does 
not establish recognition of honorable mention awards. 
The Petitioner also won honorable mentions at two I I Art Contests. In our appellate 
decision, we acknowledged the reputation of the~-------------r-..-----., but concluded 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his honorable mentions are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in his field. On motion, the Petitioner disputes our conclusions but 
submits no new evidence to address this point directly. Instead, the Petitioner asserts: "Many 
recognized art competitions in the world allow open entries," and he submits the "Rules of the I I Art Prize" to support this point. The Petitioner does not claim to have won ~ I 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Art Prize, and he does not show that the rules for that competition are comparable or relevant to the 
contests in which he did participate. Any assertion of error in the prior decision would be within the 
scope of a motion to reconsider, rather than a motion to reopen. 
The Petitioner also submits photographs from the award ceremony to show that the participants were 
adults, but we did not conclude otherwise. Rather, we noted that, according to an article that the 
Petitioner submitted, the contest was open to participants ars 15 and up. The Petitioner submits 
information about other individuals who won prizes at the I contests; the effect that 
political upheaval has had on thel I art communitr and other issues, but these materials do 
not show that an honorable mention at one ofl s contests is nationally or internationally 
recognized. The Petitioner acknowledges the lack of publicity accompanying his honorable mentions, 
but he states that press coverage is not "essential to prove that [he] obtained two honorable mentions." 
The point of such coverage is not to prove that the Petitioner won those mentions, but to show that 
they have attracted the attention that one would expect in relation to a widely recognized prize or 
award. 
The Petitioner has not established, on motion, that he received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner previously claimed to satisfy this criterion with evidence regarding the I I I I and the! I We determined that the Petitioner did not 
establish his membership in the LJ and that the Petitioner did not show that thel I has 
membership requirements that conform to the regulatory language. 
On mqtion the Petitioner submits a copy of an email message from thec=:=:J welcoming the Petitioner 
"as anl~_ ----~-~ --~~' The announcement is dated August 16, 2019, more than six weeks after 
the Petitioner filed the petition on July 2, 2019, and about five weeks after the Director issued a request 
for evidence on July 11, 2019. Therefore, this document cannot establish eligibility at the time of 
filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. J 103.rb)(l). The evidence is consistent with our prior conclusion that 
the Petitioner's participation in competitions in 2016 and 2017 was not evidence of membership. 
,...F-=u""-rt=h=e=rm=o=re"-'---"------.-~' is the lowest of three tiers of D membership (the others being 
'----------.----~a=n-=-.d I ~-A submitted printout from the c=:J,s website 
must show "competence and understanding," whereas a I I indicates that a 
I t must have I I' ~-------------~ 
We concluded that letters from the D's president were "not sufficiently detailed to establish that 
thd lrequires prospective members to demonstrate 'outstanding achievements' as a condition of 
admission." We noted that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence of the organization's 
membership requirements. 
4 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a printout from theO' s website, stating: "The first criteria [sic] 
is talent, regardless of the length of the CV, years of experience, awards and honors received .... All 
our academicians have been subject to a rigorous selection and selected for excellence in their work."2 
The Petitioner also submits a new letter from the president of thd I, who repeats assertions from 
his prior letters and states that jurors consider "pictorial techniques," "compositional ability," 
"inherent meaning" and "uniqueness" of submitted works. These are factors that relate to subjective 
evaluations of an artist's skills, but the Petitioner has not shown that they rise to the level of 
outstanding achievements. 
We previously observed that the Petitioner did not submitD documentation such as its bylaws or 
constitution. In the absence of documented, enforceable rules and definition of key terms, the 
submitted information is too vague to establish that I I membership meets the regulatory 
requirements. 
The Petitioner, on motion, has not established his membership in associations that meet the requirements 
specified in the regulations. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged that letters from galleries indicate that the Petitioner's 
paintings command high prices, but we stated: "The Petitioner has documented the sales price for 
only two of his paintings." We concluded that the Petitioner did not "establish that he has commanded 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others." Furthermore, the Petitioner's documented sales 
were through galleries, but his arguments relied upon market reports that only deal with auctions, 
rather than gallery sales. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits printouts from the website of an online gallery, listing the prices for 
the Petitioner's work and other paintings of the same size, style, and media. These listings are for 
paintings that remain available for sale, and therefore they do not show the prices that buyers have 
actually paid for the Petitioner's work. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that this one 
gallery is representative of the field as a whole. 
The Petitioner also submits anc=J exhibition catalog from 2018. His work is not listed, but the 
Petitioner states that most of the prices in that catalog are lower than the prices for his work. As above, 
the Petitioner has not shown the prices in this catalog to be representative of the price range to be 
found in the field overall. 
The Petitioner submits invoices to show "the progressive increase in the value of his work since 2014." 
The invoices show that three of his paintings sold for $5000-$6000 each in 2014-2015, and five others 
sold for between $9010 and $11,200 in 2019-2020. Two of the invoices are dated after the petition's 
2 The use of the plural "criteria" instead of "criterion" is one of several grammatical and spelling errors in the web printout 
(such as "authot" instead of "author" and "justificative" instead of "justification"). 
5 
filing date. One invoice reflects a 20% discount from the asking price, which demonstrates that 
purchasers do not always pay the foll published price of an artwork. As a result, the foll prices listed 
on websites do not necessarily match the amounts that the Petitioner will eventually receive. 
The invoices are not sufficient to establish any definite trend in the prices of the Petitioner's work, 
partly because there are only a few of them, with a gap of several years between 2015 and 2019. Also, 
the recent invoices are mostly for much heavier (and, thus, presumably larger) works than the older 
mvmces. 
The Petitioner compares the prices his work commanded in 2014-2015 withl ~s "monthly 
minimum wage in the same month and year." The comparison is not instructive, because the 
regulations require remuneration to be significantly high in relation to others in the.field, rather than 
in relation to the local minimum wage or the population as a whole. 
Together, the invoices document $68,168 in sales over a span of five and a half years. The six invoices 
dated prior to the July 2019 filing date show an average price of $7643. The Petitioner has not 
established that these figures are significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner, on motion, has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
The remainder of the new evidence submitted on motion concerns the Petitioner's ongoing activity, 
intended to establish that he continues to work as an artist. Our appellate decision included no 
substantive conclusions in this regard, and therefore we need not discuss this evidence here. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's new evidence does not establish eligibility or overcome the grounds for dismissal of 
the appeal. The motion to reopen is granted in part and denied in part for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
6 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26666847 Date: MAY 3, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology project manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision; a combined motion to reopen and reconsider; and 
a motion to reopen. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence ofnew facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial ofthe petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot 
use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages ofthe proceeding. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner worked as an IT manager forl when he filed the petition in 2016. He 
later worked as a lead business systems analyst for Emerson Automated Solutions, and then as 
manager ofIT Systems and Administration for I Hotels. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Our prior decisions include a fuller discussion of the procedural history, but to summarize: we 
previously concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied two criteria: judging the work ofothers (8 C.F .R. 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv)) and publication of scholarly articles (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)). The Petitioner's 
first two motions centered on two other claimed criteria: membership in associations that require 
outstanding achievements (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)) and high remuneration for services (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix)). 
We dismissed the Petitioner's second motion in May 2022 for two reasons. First, the Petitioner did not 
establish that status as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts, as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Second, the Petitioner's new evidence was too broad and general to 
establish that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in 
relation to others in the field, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We also noted that, had the 
proceeding reached a final merits determination as described in Kazarian, the petition still would not be 
approvable because the record does not indicate that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or 
international acclaim in his field and reached the very top of his field as required by section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner maintains that he has satisfied the criterion relating to memberships. 
In previous decisions, we acknowledged that IEEE selects senior members through review panels, with 
panelists selected "from the local IEEE Section." We concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that 
the panelists are nationally or internationally recognized experts. We also identified significant 
distinctions between the "senior member" and "fellow" grades ofIEEE membership. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner states: 
According to IEEE website and guidelines, Senior member nomination panel . . . 
reviewers are recruited among Senior members, Life Senior members, and Fellows in the 
section where the meeting is to be held. . . . Senior members, Life Senior members and 
Fellow members ofIEEE are all experts and experienced in their respective career fields. 
There are IEEE members who have won Nobel prizes in the past and some ofthem have 
served on the panel ofreviewers. 
This assertion is essentially a rephrasing of the Petitioner's earlier statement that "panel members are 
experts in their chosen fields." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) does not merely require 
"experts"; it requires "recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." The 
Petitioner's latest filing does not show that review panelists meet this much higher threshold. 
IEEE convenes review panels six times a year to consider applications for senior member status. 
Materials submitted on motion indicate that "review panel meetings are held in various locations 
throughout the world," and "[a] panel of reviewers is recruited among Senior members, Life Senior 
members, and Fellows in the section where the meeting is to be held." 1 In our May 2022 decision, we 
concluded that this information indicates that each panel consists of local members. The Petitioner 
disputes this conclusion, stating: "IEEE is referring to the section (region) where the meeting is taking 
place and not local communities nor local city. IEEE has ten (10) regions." The materials submitted on 
1 https://www.ieee.org/membership/senior/review-panel.html. 
3 
motion refute the Petitioner's attempt to equate "sections" with "regions." A submitted printout from 
IEEE's website states that the organization has "343 Sections in ten geographic Regions worldwide."2 
The submitted evidence does not show that panel membership is limited to nationally or internationally 
recognized experts, or that reviewers are recruited from throughout regions rather than sections. 
The Petitioner contends: "The only difference between a senior member and a fellow member is the 
number ofyears, which states that you have to be a Senior member for five (5) years before you can be 
nominated to be a fellow member." The Petitioner observes that he has been a senior member for over 
five years, and "as such, is qualified to be nominated to the fellow member category." But the Petitioner 
then quotes materials from IEEE that refute his argument. 
The quoted materials state that only senior or life senior members are eligible to become fellows, but the 
IEEE does not require five years in either grade. Rather, they require "five full years (consecutive or not) 
of full IEEE membership in any grade."3 More significantly, to qualify for elevation to IEEE fellow 
grade, a senior member must "[h]]ave accomplishments that have contributed importantly to the 
advancement or application ofengineering, science and technology, bringing the realization of significant 
value to society ."4 Candidates for senior member grade must meet the much lower threshold of five years 
of"significant performance," which may include "[s ]ubstantial job responsibilities such as team leader, 
task supervisor, [or] engineer in charge ofa program or project."5 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner has not established that senior member grade in IEEE 
constitutes membership in an association in the field for which classification is sought, which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner has not shown error in our May 2022 decision, to warrant 
reconsideration of that decision, and the evidence submitted on motion does not show proper cause to 
reopen the proceeding. 
The remainder ofthe Petitioner's statement on motion concerns how his "work will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States," as required by section 203(b)(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. Our May 2022 
decision did not address the issue of prospective benefit, and therefore this discussion does not allege 
error that would warrant reconsideration of the May 2022 decision. Also, the discussion of substantial 
prospective benefit does not cite any new evidence as required for a motion to reopen. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
combined motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 https://www.ieee.org/about/at-a-glance.html. 
3 https://www.ieee.org/membership/fellows/steps.html. 
4 Id. 
5 https://www.ieee.org/membership/senior/senior-requirements.html. 
4 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the 
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 24512109 Date: MAY 04, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economist and political scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is and intends to continue working in the United States as an economist 
and political scientist. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following six criteria: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Original contribution of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Leading or critical role; and 
• Commercial successes in performing arts. 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the regulatory criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that he meets the initially claimed regulatory criteria, except for commercial 
successes in performing arts under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), stating he withdraws his claim for this 
criterion. After reviewing the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets the requisite 
three criteria.1 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence in the record individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To establish this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate their receipt of awards or prizes, and that 
those awards or prizes were granted to acknowledge excellence in the field and are nationally or 
internationally recognized. The Director found that the Petitioner's receipt of thel II I did not meet the criterion since the Petitioner "did not submit major trade 
publications or other major media conveying that the medal is nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor (political science)." In the decision, the Director explained that 
news articles submitted suggest the medal may have been given to the Petitioner not for excellence in 
the field, but instead for his employment status at the ________ 
While the Petitioner does not deny receiving the medal as al I employee, the articles and 
other evidence in the record do not indicate or suggest the Petitioner's employment status with the 
I lwas the reason for his receipt of the medal. Instead, the articles name some of the 
medal's notable recipients specifically and generally mention that some recipients are I I 
employees. 
Relevant considerations in determining whether an award was granted for excellence in the field 
include the following: the criteria used to grant the award, national or international significance of the 
award in the field, and the number of awardees taking into consideration any limitations on 
competitors.2 We agree with the Petitioner's argument that the Kazakhstan Presidential decree 
establishing the medal conveys the national recognition of the medal for significant contributions in 
the fields of economics and political science. 
The decree issued by the President of Kazakhstan states the I I was established to 
commemorate the 20th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence and of the Tenge, the Kazakhstan 
currency. While the decree does not provide for specific criteria for awarding the medal, it sets out 
general rules authorizing the chairman and other authorized persons of thel Ito award the 
medal on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan to citizens and foreigners "who have made a significant 
contribution to the functioning of the national currency" of Kazakhstan. The decree, as well as the 
articles, explain the significance ofKazakhstan's currency to its economy and political independence, 
and the importance of the award to recognize Kazakhstan citizens and foreign leaders who have made 
significant contributions to the development and strengthening of the sovereignty of Kazakhstan. We 
find that the Petitioner established the national or international recognition of the I lfor 
excellence in the fields of economics and political science, and withdraw the Director's finding to the 
contrary. 
The Petitioner meets the preponderance of evidence standard for meeting this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence for his receipt of other awards, most of which appear to have been 
academic awards. Given the Petitioner has met the criterion with his receipt of thel Ithe 
other awards will be considered in the final merits determination. 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the plain language of the criterion since the articles 
submitted were not about the Petitioner's work as a political scientist, and the evidence was insufficient 
to demonstrate the national readership at the time of the publication. The Director references an 
article published in Zhas Alash, __________ stating the article "is not about 
[the Petitioner's] work as a political scientist." The Director further explains that the evidence 
submitted about the publication, Zhas Alash, does not "convey its national readership in 1996" and 
does not demonstrate it is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
The Petitioner argues the article describes the Petitioner's educational successes, including earning a 
presidential scholarship and degrees in economics and international economics. We agree with the 
Petitioner that the record sufficiently demonstrates the article is about the Petitioner and relates to his 
work in political science and economics. 
The article is an interview with the Petitioner focusing on his having been part of a new academic 
scholarship program initiated by Kazakhstan's President after the country's independence from 
U.S.S.R. The program selects students to study abroad and return to Kazakhstan with specialized 
knowledge to help the country's development. The article explains the Petitioner received a master's 
degree in international economics and had since returned to Kazakhstan having been employed as an 
economics specialist with the 
______________ The article provides the Petitioner's perspective on the 
importance of having specialists with Kazakhstan's new social structure stating, "Market relations, 
privatization, self-financing, private ownership rather than state ownership is necessary to understand 
that the growth of private property is not just another campaign, as in the former socialist society, but 
a necessity of real life, a reality of development." The article further describes the Petitioner's 
perspective on other economic issues of Kazakhstan as a newly developed country. We find the article 
is about the Petitioner and relates to his work in his fields of political science and economics. 
The Petitioner also argues the evidence submitted demonstrates the publication, Zhas Alash, has been 
in existence for over 90 years becoming "a major republic publication." The record includes a 
Wikipedia summary of Zhas Alash explaining the history of the publication as a socio-political 
newspaper in Khazakstan which is published twice a week. The summary explains Zhas Alash was 
founded in 1921 in the Soviet Union continuing post-Soviet era as an independent socio-political 
newspaper. In 2000, the paper received an award and had a circulation of 50,000. The evidence 
demonstrates Zhas Alash being a major trade or professional publication at the time of the article was 
published in 1996. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. We therefore withdraw the Director's finding. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner contends he qualifies for this criterion based on his reports published in conference 
materials; his book, and articles he wrote for magazines, journals, and 
other publications. The Director found that he did not provide evidence that the publications or sources 
are professional or major trade publications, or other major media. Also, the Director found that the 
reports and articles "do not appear to be scholarly or in the field ofpolitical science." On appeal, the 
Petitioner states his previously submitted evidence demonstrates his eligibility for this criterion. 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements. The first element requires that the Petitioner is 
an author of scholarly articles in his field. We consider these articles within two distinct areas. The 
first area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. The second area lies outside of the 
academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
"Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned 
persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendices). 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in a professional 
publication, a major trade publication, or in a form of major media. Regarding the medium in which 
the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the publication's circulation statistics are high 
relative to similar publications and should also establish the publication's intended audience. Id. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Among the multiple reports and articles submitted by the Petitioner, he submitted a report entitled, _____________________________ which was 
presented at a conference, 11 International Conference, organized by the Republican State Enterprise 
Institute for Economic Research of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. The record shows the conference published a collection of the presenters' reports, 
including the Petitioner's rep01i. The conference material includes an introductory summary 
explaining the conference's purpose was to analyze the "international practice of infrastructure 
development by the private sector"; the conference attendees included scientists, specialists, and 
employees in the banking and economic industries; and an explanation that the conference material is 
intended for "economists and professionals interested in the development of public and private 
partnerships for the creation of infrastructure facilities in Kazakhstan." 
The Petitioner's report and the summary of the conference material indicates the published material 
was intended for learned persons in the Petitioner's fields of economics and political science. Also, 
the collection of conference material qualifies as professional trade material since it was provided to 
scientists, specialists, and employees focused on the Petitioner's fields of economics and political 
science. 
5 
Accordingly, the record demonstrates the Petitioner meets the basic parameters applicable to evidence 
under this criterion. We withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (vi), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence in the record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l){A){i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 16316660 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 5, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public prosecutor and law professor, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been a public prosecutor in the.__ ________ __. since 199 5 and teaches 
university and professional courses in criminal, constitutional and environmental law. He indicates 
that he intends to work as a legal consultant in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet seven of these criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met only one of these seven criteria, relating to his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director either overlooked or did not give due weight to the 
evidence submitted with respect to the six other claimed criteria. Upon review, we agree with this 
assertion, as the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of 
the petition and does not adequately address the evidence the Petitioner submitted in response to a 
request for evidence (RFE). An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for 
2 
meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see alsoMatter~fM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 
(BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
As noted, the Director already determined that that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion related to judging 
the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Although the decision contains a brief analysis for the 
six additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director's evaluation of each criterion 
contains few or no references to the specific evidence considered and does not adequately inform the 
Petitioner why his evidence was deemed insufficient to satisfy his burden of proof in this matter. 
With respect to the lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's initial evidence and additional evidence 
submitted in response to the RFE. However, the Director did not provide an adequate analysis ofthis 
evidence and did not explain, for example, why he detennined that the awards "appear to be local or 
regional in nature," that they were not specific to the Petitioner's field or endeavor, that the awards 
"appear to have been given as gratitude for the Petitioner's service," and why the letters from senior 
officials of two of the award-issuing organizations~ I Federal Police and I I 
Chamber of Culture) were given little evidentiaiy weight. Further, the Director's discussion of this 
criterion in the decision closely mirrors that provided in the RFE despite the Petitioner's submission of 
additional evidence with his RFE response. Given the amount and type of evidence submitted in 
support of this criterion, we find the Director's brief analysis does not adequately inform the Petitioner 
of his reasons for concluding that none of the awards satisfied the plain language of the awards 
criterion. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). As with the awards criterion, the Director listed some of the documents the Petitioner 
submitted but did not discuss any specific evidence in his analysis of the criterion, instead reaching a 
conclusory finding that the evidence in general was insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements. 
The Director further concluded that the Petitioner "did not submit evidence to show that the 
associations conferred membership to him," a determination that is not supported by the evidence in 
the record. As the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the evidence 
submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how 
the evidence supports his eligibility. 
The Petitioner also claimed that he could satisfy the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii) and submitted more than 40 articles published in print and online publications. The 
Director observed that the record included "numerous new articles in which he was featured" but 
determined that the Petitioner did not provide evidence to establish that the published materials 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not submit "material to establish the circulation statistics for the 
news outlets" or "other circulation data to compare with ... these publications." At the same time, the 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's RFE response included information from Similar Web. 
3 
We note that this evidence shows the ranking of some of the submitted publications relative to other 
publications in ~nd indicates that several articles were published in on line outlets ranked 7th 
and 8th itj I Therefore, the Director's determination that there was no evidence that any of the 
articles appeared in major media was not supported by the record. 
On remand, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and evidence submitted in supp01t 
of the published materials criterion, and evaluate whether any of the articles that are about the 
Petitioner and relating to his work in the field also include the date, title and author of the publication 
and appeared in major media or other qualifying publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director observed that the Petitioner was "featured" in numerous articles, we note that 
many of the submitted published materials merely mention his role as a prosecutor in specific 
investigations and cases in his district and are not "about" him as required by the regulatory language. 
In evaluating the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(vi), which requires evidence that the Petitioner 
has authored scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he had authored "a book 
and several articles." The Director did not address any of this evidence individually, but rather 
generally stated that the Petitioner did not provide circulation statistics to establish publication in 
major media or "any evidence of the intended audience of these publications." The record reflects 
that the Petitioner addressed the intended audience of his published articles at length in the letter 
included with his RFE response and that the response included additional documentation regarding 
these publications that is not mentioned in the decision. As the matter will be remanded, the Director 
should re-examine the evidence submitted to satisfy this criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), requires the Petitioner to submit evidence that he has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner points to more than 10 exhibits included with the RFE response 
which specifically addressed this criterion. However, the Director's analysis of the criterion is limited 
to three sentences and contains no specific references to the evidence or arguments the Petitioner 
presented with the petition or in response to the RFE. The Director should consider all of the evidence 
submitted when examining this criterion on remand. 
Finally, in evaluating the criterion relating to high salary or other significantly high renpmeration at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted his[ ltax 
returns as evidence of his income, as well as comparative salary data from l I and from an 
"unknown source." On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the information the Director deemed to 
be from "unknown source" was clearly identified in the record as being obtained from the website of 
the Public Ministry o~ land accompanied by a letter from the attorney general of that state 
who provided additional information regarding the Petitioner's salary in relation to others. We agree 
with the Petitioner that the Director should not have discounted this evidence as "unreliable" and 
remand the matter to the Director to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director dete1mines that 
4 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
~ 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entty of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 109467 48 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but later revoked that 
approval on notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2. The Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, because the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had provided false information to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) regarding her plans to continue working in the area of claimed 
extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
After a preliminary review of the record, we issued a notice of our intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal, 
notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the record of proceeding . The Petitioner 
subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. The Petitioner 's request to withdraw the appeal is granted; 
however, notwithstanding the withdrawal of this appeal, we will enter a separate finding of willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. REQUEST FOR WITHDRAW AL OF THE APPEAL 
As noted above, we issued a NOID, notifying the Petitioner of various adverse findings outside the 
record of proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. She did not 
acknowledge, discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in her withdrawal request. 
A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 6); Matter of Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. 9 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, the Petitioner's request will be granted and the appeal will 
be dismissed based on that withdrawal. 
III. MATERIAL MISREPRESENTATION 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about 
her prior employment and claimed recording career, which was material to the adjudication of the 
petition. 
A. Evidence of Record 
The Petitioner claimed to be an alien of extraordinary ability in the arts, specifically as a violinist. As 
examples of her work, the Petitioner submitted what purport to be images of the front and back cover art 
of several compact discs (CDs) of her recorded work. The Petitioner also claimed to have been a professor 
2 
of Music at since 2011; she claimed no other employment during .__ ____________ ____, 
that period. 
Further research, however, calls these claims into question. 
On January 30, 2016, the Petitioner applied for a nonimmigrant visa at the U.S. Embassy iJ._ _ ____. 
Ukraine. At that time, she indicated that she was employed as "Head of Department of Advertising" at I I This information contradicts her later claim to have worked as a music professor 
since 2011. 
The CD back cover art the Petitioner submitted derives from altered images taken from real CD 
packaging. The purported packaging for.__ ______ _, shows a catalog number and artwork 
corresponding to a compilation album called).7ucKomeKa Aeapu5t -Bee Xztmbz: Aeapu5t Ilpomue!. 1 
The purported back cover of I , I shows the logo of thel l1abel; a bar code 
numbered! land the catalog numberl I The last two numerals printed 
with the bar code have been altered; the bar code itself actually scans as 4607115072715, which 
corresponds to I'ape.r,,1, an album by Reflex. 2 Text and logos in the submitted image match elements 
of the Reflex album. The catalog number, also altered, corresponds to the compilation album XXXL 
15 -MaKCllll4llllbHbllt. 3 
The purported back cover o~ I shows a blurred photo of trees; a bar code reading 
'-------~ logos for Fiction Records, Polydor, and Universal; and the web address 
"www.thecure.com." The text also provides separate catalog numbers for "DISC ONE" and "DISC 
TWO," although! I purportedly has only 10 tracks. The back cover text (except for 
the Petitioner's name, in a mismatched font) and the tree image correspond to a 2-CD reissue of 
Seventeen Seconds by the Cure. 4 
The Petitioner has submitted no credible evidence that her claimed CDs actually exist. (The Petitioner 
did not submit the actual CDs themselves, or their original packaging.) Her reliance on falsified images 
of packaging indicates that she did not actually release the claimed CDs. Because the artwork from 
three of her claimed CDs has been falsified, there is reason to question the origin and authenticity of the 
submitted artwork for several other claimed CDs. Doubt cast on any aspect of a petitioner's proof may 
undermine the reliability and sufficiency of the remaining evidence offered in support of the visa petition. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988). We note, here, that the Director of the Nebraska 
Service Center previously concluded that the Petitioner submitted "digitally manipulated" images 
relating to awards and media coverage. The Petitioner did not dispute this conclusion when given the 
opportunity to do so. 
Our NOID gave the Petitioner an opportunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that, if she did not overcome this 
1 Source: https://www.discogs.com/)],11cK0TeKa-ABapm1-Bce-X11Tbr-ABapm1-TTponrn/release/11669604 (last visited Feb. 
2, 2021). 
2 Source: https://www.discogs.com/Reflex-fapeMlrelease/5405130 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021). 
3 Source: https://www.discogs.com/Various-XXXL-15-MaKCIIMaJibHbiii:/release/2374428 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021). 
4 Source: https://www.discogs.com/The-Cure-Seventeen-Seconds/release/493031 (last visited Feb. 2, 2021 ). 
3 
information, then we would make a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. We further 
advised that, while the Petitioner had the right to withdraw the petition, such a withdrawal would not 
prevent a finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact. The Petitioner responded to the NOID 
with a request to withdraw the appeal, but she did not address the above-described adverse findings in 
any way. 
B. Analysis 
The facts and evidence presented in the instant matter warrant a finding of willful misrepresentation 
of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
A misrepresentation is an assertion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), a material misrepresentation requires that the 
foreign national willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of 
obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N 
Dec. 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See Matter o_f Healy 
and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To be considered material, the misrepresentation must 
be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which 
might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 
536, 537 (BIA 1980). 
USCIS will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits evidence which contains false information. 
In general, a few errors or minor discrepancies are not reason to question the credibility of a foreign 
national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. US., 345 F.3d 683, 
694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes serious errors and discrepancies, and the petitioner 
does not resolve those errors and discrepancies given the opportunity to rebut or explain, then the 
inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that the claims stated in the petition are not true. See 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. 
In this case, the discrepancies in the documents relating to the petition constitute substantial and 
probative evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) calls for evidence of the alien's 
commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact 
disc, or video sales. The Petitioner submitted altered CD artwork specifically to address this regulation, 
and therefore evidence of a claimed recording career is material to her eligibility under section 
203(b )(3 )(A) of the Act. We find that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts regarding the claimed 
CDs. 
The Petitioner's past employment is also material to the petition, because eligibility is based on 
acclaim earned in one's past career. See section 203(b )(2)(A)(i) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner initially claimed that, as a professor, she performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, which relates to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We find that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts relating to her past 
employment in Ukraine, because her own prior statements about her employment history contradict 
the information she provided in the petition. 
4 
When given an opportunity to rebut these findings, the Petitioner offered no rebuttal or explanation 
for the inconsistencies. Instead, she withdrew the appeal. If the Petitioner had not withdrawn the 
appeal, we would have dismissed the appeal based, in part, on these misrepresentations. See Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. at 9; see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation. 
Section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C), provides: 
Misrepresentation -(i) In general -Any alien who, by fraud or willfully 
misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to procure or has 
procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other 
benefit provided under this Act is inadmissible. 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See Matter of M-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter of L-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 1961); Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
First, the Petitioner submitted falsified evidence ( altered images of CD packaging) intended to falsely 
create the appearance of a recording career. The Petitioner's submission of these falsified documents 
in support of her immigrant visa petition constitutes a false representation to a government official. 
The Petitioner also made a false representation to a government official when she claimed to have 
been a music professor since 2011, when her own prior statements show that she was employed in an 
unrelated field during that time. 
Next, we find that the Petitioner willfully made the misrepresentation. The Petitioner has not asserted 
that she believed the images of the claimed CD packaging to be authentic, or explained how she came 
to be in possession of the images. She has also not accounted for providing two conflicting 
employment histories. When given the opportunity to address our findings, the Petitioner withdrew 
the appeal rather than offering any explanation or rebuttal that she submitted the evidence accidentally, 
inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts previously offered in support of the petition were 
true. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner signed Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, certifying under 
penalty of perjury that the visa petition and the submitted evidence are all true and correct. See section 
287(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(b); see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2). Accompanying the signed 
petition, the Petitioner submitted the claimed CD artwork and information about her claimed 
professorship, specifically citing them as evidence in support of the petition. Part 8 of Form I-140 
requires a petitioner to make the following affirmation: "I certify, under penalty of perjury of the 
United States of America, that this petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and correct." 
5 
On the basis of this affirmation, made under penalty of perjury, we find that the Petitioner willfully 
and knowingly made the misrepresentation. 
Third, the misrepresented facts are material. To be considered material, a false statement must be 
shown to have been predictably capable of affecting the decision of the decision-making body. Kungys 
v. US., 485 U.S. 759 (1988). Here, the misrepresentations could have affected the outcome of the 
petition because they purported to address, and to satisfy, specified criteria of eligibility; as noted 
above, the Director initially approved the petition before revoking that approval. In light of the list 
of contradictory evidence and information we described above and in the NOID, we find that the 
Petitioner's misrepresentations were material to her eligibility. 
For these reasons, we will enter a finding that the Petitioner made a willful misrepresentation of a 
material fact. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
By filing the instant petition and submitting falsified evidence relating to her claimed employment and 
recording career, the Petitioner sought to procure a benefit provided under the Act through willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding shall be considered in any future proceeding where 
admissibility is an issue. While the Petitioner has chosen to withdraw her appeal, this does not negate 
our finding that she sought to procure immigration benefits through willful representations of material 
facts, which may render her inadmissible in future proceedings. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16159429 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 5, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a barista, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from 
that decision, as well as three subsequent motions to reopen. The matter is now before us on a fourth 
motion to reopen, in which the Petitioner submits evidence intended to meet two of the evidentiary 
criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 XA) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § I 03 .5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that 
satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. A 
motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen to instances where the 
Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening, a petitioner must not 
only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, 
Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the motion. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as a barista at his own cafe, and has also won prizes at various competitions. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; and 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to prizes and participation 
as a judge. On appeal, and in subsequent motions to reopen, the Petitioner has attempted to show that 
he also satisfies the criterion relating to published material. Also, in his third motion, the Petitioner 
made a new claim to have satisfied a fourth criterion, pertaining to a high salary or remuneration in 
relation to others in the field. We dismissed the Petitioner's third motion, citing two reasons. 
2 
First, the Petitioner claims that articles posted on a "coffee blog" called Sprudge are qualifying 
published material about him. We determined that, while the Petitioner had submitted subjective 
assessments indicating that "Sprudge is popular with its fellow coffee b logs," the Petitioner had not 
submitted circulation figures or other evidence to show that Sprudge "qualifies as a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media." 
Second, we concluded that, while the Petitioner had documented the total income of a caf e that he 
operated in Iran from 2009 to 2014, he had not submitted documentary evidence to show that he 
"earned a high salary when compared to that of other baristas or cafe owners" as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitionerdoesnotcontestthis determination in his latest 
motion, and therefore we need not discuss this issue further. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner submits a printout from Sprudge, which provides information about 
the website and twice refers to the website as ''the world's most popular coffee publication." As we 
observed in an earlier decision, promotional self-descriptions have negligible weight as evidence. See 
Braga v. Poulos, CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd 317 F. 
App 'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we "need not, and indeed should not, rely on [a publisher's] 
self-serving assertion" about the significance of a given publication). 
The new printout does not establish that Sprudge is a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media, and the Petitioner does not identify any error in our previous discussion of the 
publication. The new printout does not show proper cause to reopen the proceeding. 
The Petitioner also attempts to meet a fifth, previously unclaimed evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), relating to membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The submitted evidence consists of a translated copy of a September 2020 letter, appointing the 
Petitioner to a two-year term as the education and research director of the ______ 
from September 2020 to September 2022, and translated background information about the 
identifying the Petitioner as one of ten members of its board of directors. 
The evidence does not establish that either the o or its board of directors is an association which 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. Also, the Petitioner must establish eligibility as of the petition's filing date. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )( 1 ). Here, the !appointment letter is dated September 2020, nearly four years after the 
Petitioner filed the petition in December 2016. 
Because of the above deficiencies, the new evidence regarding the Petitioner' s m membership does 
not show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion, or estab lishedeligibility 
for the classification he seeks. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 28115531 Date: MAY 05, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a costume designer for athletes and performers, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the classification's initial evidence requirement through evidence of 
either a one-time achievement or which met the requirements ofat least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner 's I-290B was initially assigned receipt numbed On May 4 2023 we issued 
correspondence notifying the Petitioner that this had been changed to the current receipt number I 
This is an internal processing change only. I 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a designer of costumes worn by athletes, particularly figure skaters, ice dancers, and 
synchronized swimming athletes, as well theater performers. The evidence indicates that her costumes 
have been worn by athletes during several Olympic Garnes and world championships. She currently 
lives and works in the United States and intends to continue to design costumes. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found in his decision that the Petitioner did not meet any 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she 
meets four of the evidentiary criteria. 3 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
she does not meet the requisite three criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested classification. 
In addition to her brief, the Petitioner also submits additional evidence in support of her claimed 
criteria. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has 
been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for 
the first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 
2 The Director indicated in his request for evidence (RFE) that the Petitioner met the evidentiary cntena at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, but did not mention this 
criterion in his decision. 
3 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision with regards to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(vi), 
relating to her authorship of scholarly articles. In general, we will not address issues that were not raised with specificity 
on appeal. We will therefore consider this issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 
I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The Director's RFE spelled out the deficiencies in the evidence initially 
submitted and listed additional evidence which could be submitted to address those deficiencies, and 
the Petitioner responded with additional evidence. We therefore will not consider the evidence 
submitted on appeal. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on evidence ofher membershi in two associations: the _____________ and the ___________________ 
Regarding the former, the Director acknowledged the evidence of her membership beginning in 1989 
in the las well as a letter from Iformer Chairman 
of the Moscow Board of the organization, but concluded that the letter was overly broad and did not 
show that the association required outstanding achievements of its members. The Director also noted 
information from the website of the which indicates that it was established onl I 
1991, and includes a list of documentation to be submitted for membership, but determined that this 
did not sufficiently demonstrate that outstanding achievements are required or that the documentation 
was reviewed by national or international design experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the newly submitted evidence, but as stated above we will not 
consider this evidence. While she asserts that the is is the legal successor to theI I 
4 I I this is not indicated in the webpage. 4 More importantly, the relevance ofthe evidence 
regarding the is not apparent, as the Petitioner did not submit evidence of her membership in 
that association. I I letter states that the I I ceased to exist in 1991, and does not 
specifically mention the or indicate whether former members of theI lwould have been 
automatically accepted by the or would have had to submit applications. Further, we agree with 
the Director that his letter does not sufficiently establish that the I I required outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by national or international experts. 
Turning to the Petitioner's membership in thel lthe only evidence she refers to on a eal is a 
letter from I I who states that he was a former president ofthe association. 
confirms that the Petitioner "has been a member of the ______________ as an 
outstanding artist," and that she has created costumes for the Russian national team at the World 
Championships and the Olympic Games. However, he does not provide any information regarding 
the requirements for membership in the I Inor does the record otherwise contain such evidence. 
The Petitioner has not established that her membership in this association meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
As the Petitioner has not shown that her memberships in the __ or the I_ required 
outstanding achievements, she does not meet this criterion. 
4 The Petitioner bases this assertion on the submitted evidence, but we note that that evidence appears to be from 
the website of a different association, not the newly
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, evidence of published material must be about the individual and their 
work in the field, be published in one of the qualifying media types, and include the identifying 
information specified. While the individual and their work need not be the sole subject of the 
published material, it should include a substantial discussion of the individual's work and a mention 
of the individual in connection to that work. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices 
Tab. The Director concluded that, for varying reasons, none ofthe evidence submitted met all ofthese 
elements. 
In her appeal brief, the Petitioner first addresses two articles regarding bathing suits she designed, 
asserting that missing pages from the article in Where Moscow discuss her and her work. However, 
the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that this article is about her, and the evidence from 
Marie Claire consists only of a caption accompanying a photo showing one of her swimsuits being 
modeled. Neither of these materials includes a substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner also asserts that materials appearing in five other publications should be considered to 
meet this criterion, as all ofthe publications qualify as major media. All of these articles are about the 
Petitioner and her work, and include the required date, author and title. But the evidence does not 
establish that the websites on which they were published qualify as major media. For example, in 
support ofthe materials published on the websites ofLIFE, Komsomolskaya Pravda, and RIA Novosti, 
the Petitioner submitted only pages from Wikipedia about these companies. As there are no assurances 
about the reliability ofthe content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia 
will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008). 5 In addition, even if we were to consider this evidence, it does not include information 
showing that viewership of these websites is high when compared to other similar websites such that 
they can be considered as major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
As none of the published materials meet all of the elements under this criterion, we agree with the 
Director's conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
5 See also the online content from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_disclaimer, accessed on April 14, 
2023, and copy incorporated into the record of proceeding is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association ofindividuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information ... 
. Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity ofthe information found here. The content ofany given article 
may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not conespond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
4 
I Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In support of her qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from 
lwho states that he is one of the founders of theI IFigure 
Skating Awards. I I states in this letter that the Petitioner was "invited by the organizing 
committee as a consultant and a member ofthe panel tasked with selecting initial contestants in 2019-
20." In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a new letter from who 
reiterates that she was invited to be a member ofthe selection committee for 2020 Skating Awards. 
He goes on to state that in addition to her role on the organizing committee, she conducted the 
preliminary selection of contestants for the "best costume" award "for subsequent voting by the 
audience and members of the jury, of which she was a member." However, a press release from the 
Skating A wards was also submitted, and it indicates that a long list of candidates was voted on 
through an online system by the media, public, and ISU members, not by a jury. 6 The Petitioner must 
resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the 
truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Since these materials are inconsistent 
regarding the judging process for the awards, we will not afford I lletters evidentiary 
weight. Therefore, the record does not show that the Petitioner served as a judge ofthe work of others 
for the 2020 Skating Awards. 
The Petitioner also asserts that she served as a member of the organizing committee for the First 
____________ as well as on a jury which judged a competition for young fashion 
designers within this event. She bases this assertion upon a letter froml Iwho states that 
he was head of the sports department of the newspaper which sponsored the fair. He also writes that 
in addition to this fair, the Petitioner was invited to "other events as a member of the jury of beauty 
contests and fashion designers' contests." However, this letter lacks sufficient specifics regarding 
these contests, such as the dates of the events, the number or age of the contestants, or any additional 
information about the events themselves. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a 
letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of 
Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it 
is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter ofS-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The 
Board also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative 
testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." Id. Iftestimonial evidence lacks specificity, 
detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter 
of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). As the Director noted, there is also a lack of documentary 
evidence in the record to support the statements in I I letters. As such, we agree that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
6 The press release (issued prior to the 2020 awards) does indicate that the final awards were to be dete1mined by a jury. 
but the Petitioner does not claim to have been a part of this jury. 
5 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that her work has been displayed at figure skating, ice dancing, and 
synchronized swimming competitions, as well as theatrical performances and other artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. She has therefore established that she meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Per the above, the Petitioner has established that she meets one of the five evidentiary criteria she 
claims on appeal. While she also asserts that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
relating to original contributions ofmajor significance to her field, we need not determine whether she 
meets that criterion. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 7 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that they 
are one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15775769 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 6, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business executive , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for various .__ ___________ __. companies since 1996, starting 
as an engineer and rising to execrive porions. After serving as the chief executive officer (CEO) of I I in Saudi Arabia, in 2020 the Petitioner became the CEO ofi I 
which provides services to clients in the oil and gas industry. The Petitioner asserts that he "ranks among 
the top corporate executives in the world and is an internationally acclaimed expert in the field of 
managing international engineering and manufacturing enterprises in the energy industry." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the criteria, relating to a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner has served on the board of trustees of Saudi Arabia's National Power Academy (NP A), 
and ar---7representative at the American Petroleum Institute (API). The Director concluded that 
neithe~ositions constitutes a qualifying membership. On appeal, the Petitioner only discusses 
his role at the NP A, and therefore we consider him to have waived his claim regarding the APL 1 We note 
that materials in the record indicate that the API's members are companies rather than individuals. 
The Petitioner has not established that the NP A's board of trustees is an association in the field. Rather, 
according to its charter, the NP A exists to provide vocational training for the energy industry, and its 
board of trustees is its governing authority. The NP A's I I asserts that the 
Petitioner "was elected to the position of Board Member ... based on his extraordinary achievements in 
the field and his reputation as a leading expert," but the record does not support this assertion. The NP A's 
charter does not indicate that recognized national or international experts elect board members based on 
their outstanding achievements. Rather, the NP A's stakeholders, including! I appoint the board 
members who represent them, and the charter does not indicate how the stakeholders choose whom to 
appoint. The Petitioner's letter of appointment frortj I likewise does not say that the Petitioner's 
achievements were the basis for his appointment. This letter also shows that the decision to name the 
Petitioner to the board lay with his employer, rather than with the NP A. Given the responsibilities and 
authorities of board members, the Petitioner's position may qualify as a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but the Director already 
concluded that the Petitioner has satisfied that criterion. 
The Petitioner has not established his membership in associations that meet the specified requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits numerous exhibits intended to satisfy this criterion, but he does not submit 
evidence to establish that any of the materials appeared in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. Because the burden of proof is on the Petitioner, we do not begin with the assumption 
that the publications meet that requirement. On appeal, the Petitioner cites a previously-submitted letter 
from an executive of "J I multinational investment bank and financial services holding company, 
[who] confirms the publication of major media and trade articles regarding" the Petitioner. The bank 
executive states that "major media from around the world has reported on [the Petitioner's] 
accomplishments," but he does not establish how his background in finance gives him knowledge of trade 
publications in the oil and gas industry. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Many of the materials are deficient for other reasons as well. Several publications, such as Asian Oil & 
Gas, Diesel & Gas Turbine Worldwide, and Oil & Gas News, announced the Petitioner's appointment as 
CEO of1 I These articles include brief biographical sketches of the Petitioner, and we 
conclude that the articles are about him, relating to his work in the field. Nevertheless, these articles do 
not otherwise meet the regulatory reruiremen1s. They lack the required author credit, and the articles are 
either paraphrased or copied from a press release in the record. The record does not show that 
the Petitioner's appointment attracted media notice apart from the publication of materials copied or 
adapted froml lown promotional press release (which is not a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media). Promotional and marketing materials are not generally considered 
to be published materials about the individual.2 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that his "appointment as CEO ofl I was a direct result 
of his outstanding achievement ... and therefore, announcement of [his] appointment to this executive 
position is absolutely publi[ shed material] about [ the Petitioner] and his achievements." We acknowledge 
that the Petitioner's appointment as CEO o~ I is a significant achievement, however, 
the significance of such an appointment does not overcome basic deficiencies in the submitted evidence. 
As noted above, the regulation requires the published materials to identify their author. In this instance, 
the author of thd~ __ .....,bress release appears to be an unnamed publicist working at, or for,I I 
I I 
Many other articles, as noted by the Director, mention the Petitioner in passing but the articles are not 
about him, relating to his work. On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "Though these articles do not mention 
[the Petitioner] by name, they are written about contracts and projects successfully executed b~ I 
under his direction, and thus his business achievements." The regulation requires the published material 
to be "about" the Petitioner; references to his company and its projects do not meet this requirement. 
Some of the other submitted articles focus significantly on the Petitioner and his work, but, for the reasons 
discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown that these articles appeared in qualifying publications. 
The Petitioner has not established that any published materials about him, relating to his work in the field, 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In a statement submitted with the initial filing of the petition, the Petitioner stated that he "authored and 
delivered scholarly presentations at leading international conferences in the field," which deviates from 
the wording of the regulation. In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner further deviated from 
the regulatory language, stating that he "delivered executive presentations." The submitted evidence 
confirms that the Petitioner spoke at two conferences in 2019 and participated in a panel discussion at a 
conference in 2020, but the Petitioner has not shown that his participation resulted in the publication of 
any scholarly articles in professional or trade publications or other major media. 
2 See Adjudicator's Field Manual 22.2(i)(l)(A) as revised by USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.L Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update AD 11-14 7 (Dec. 22. 2010). https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner again describes his three conference appearances, and states that "the 
aforementioned publications and presentations" satisfy the regulatory requirements, but the Petitioner 
submits no evidence that his conference presentations exist in published form, disseminated through 
"media," as the regulations require. Furthermore, because the record does not document the content of 
his presentations in any detail, the Petitioner has not established that his unpublished remarks would 
qualify as scholarly articles if they were published. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner's base salary in his current position is $514,000 per year. To provide a basis for 
comparison to others in the field, the Petitioner submits printouts from the Glassdoor website, indicating 
that the average base pay for CEOs in thel I area is $162,645 per year, and the average base pay 
for CEOs at "Natural Power and Energy" is $282,237 per year. The Glassdoor printouts expressed "Low 
Confidence" in the latter figure, derived from only three samples. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the data presented "an average wage of CEOs in the natural 
energy sector rather than with similarly situated workers in the oil and gas sector." On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the comparison was apt because "oil and gas are considered natural sources of 
energy." The Glassdoor data, however, concerned not "the natural energy sector," but rather the CEO 
position at a company named "Natural Power and Energy." The Petitioner has not established that Natural 
Power and Energy engages in similar business activity tol lor that its CEO's salary is 
sufficiently representative of the field as a whole to serve as a broader basis for comparison. 
The other submitted CEO salary data is organized geographically. The regulation requires evidence that 
the Petitioner's salary is high in relation to others in the field, rather than others in the geographic area. 
While locality can affect pay scales, the Petitioner did not show that the surveyed CEO positions were at 
companies providing services to the oil and gas industry. Also, the Glassdoor printout indicated that, with 
only 17 survey respondents, there were "[ n Jot enough reports to show salary distribution" in th~ I 
area. 
For the above reasons, the submitted data is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner commands a high 
salary in relation to others in the field. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion -relating 
to original contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)- cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 3 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence establishing that the 
recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Petitioner's status as the CEO of I I corporation carries with it a certain 
inherent degree of authority and prestige. The record, however, does not rise to the level required for the 
classification sought, and does not support the Petitioner's claim to be "among the top corporate 
executives in the world." Acknowledgment of expertise is not synonymous with sustained national or 
international acclaim among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20221656 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 06, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering technical specialist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider , which we dismissed 
because it was filed untimely . Subsequently , the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we rejected 
as improperly filed, and three subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider, which we also 
dismissed. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration, establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The term 
"extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issues on motion are whether the Petitioner: (1) has established that we incorrectly applied the 
law or USCIS policy in dismissing his fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider, and (2) has 
submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening. 
A. Procedural History 
As noted, this matter is before us on a fifth motion to reopen and reconsider. To provide context for 
the Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we summarize the procedural history below: 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he 
would submit a brief and additional evidence within 30 days. The record does not 
show, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he submitted those materials within 
that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, c1tmg the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. 
2 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the 
Petitioner addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in 
filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations provide no provision for a petitioner 
to appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking 
both to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new 
evidence in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 
2019 motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i), but we also 
determined that the Petitioner had not submitted new facts on motion to overcome 
our summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. In our 
decision, we also briefly addressed some of the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
in support of his claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, and explained why this 
evidence did not satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
March 2021 The Petitioner filed a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
July 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our February 2021 decision. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's current motion includes several supporting exhibits: including a copy of his initial 
appeal filed in September 2018 (which consisted solely of a Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion 
and a check for the filing fee); a complete copy of his first combined motion to reopen and reconsider 
(a Form 1-290B with a brief and supporting exhibits) filed in January 2019; a copy of our October 
2019 decision rejecting the Petitioner's appeal of our June 2019 decision on jurisdictional grounds; 
copies of several USCIS receipt notices; and a copy of a letter from our office dated September 25, 
2019, which indicates that it was sent in response to correspondence we received from the Petitioner 
3 
concerning our June 2019 decision. All of the submitted documents were already in the record of 
proceeding and therefore do not introduce new facts that would meet the requirements of a motion to 
reopen. 
As discussed in our prior decisions, which we incorporate here by reference, the Petitioner has 
repeatedly requested that we reopen his appeal and address the merits of his claim that he meets the 
eligibility requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability at section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically 
any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. In September 
2018, the Petitioner filed an I-290B that was not accompanied by a statement identifying the basis for 
the appeal. Although he indicated on the Form I-290B filed that he would provide a brief and/or 
additional evidence to our office in order to meet this requirement, the record reflects that he did not 
do so. As we explained in our prior decisions, the only way the Petitioner may succeed on a motion 
and have his appeal reopened is to cure the deficiencies that led to the summary dismissal of his appeal. 
Absent evidence that he submitted a brief or other statement identifying the basis for his appeal of the 
Director's decision within 30 days of filing his appeal in September 2018, the Petitioner cannot 
establish proper cause to reopen that appeal. 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner now states that he did in fact mail 
a brief to our office within 30 days of filing his initial appeal in September 2018. He does not submit 
any evidence, such as proof of mailing or a copy of the brief, in support of his claim. Instead, he 
submits a copy of his initial motion to reopen and reconsider filed in January 2019, asserting that his 
brief in support of the appeal was "reiterated" in the brief he submitted on motion. The Petitioner's 
unsupported claim that he timely submitted a brief in support of his September 2018 appeal does not 
provide proper cause for reopening his appeal. Even if we accepted his assertion that he timely 
submitted a brief, the record would still be deficient because he does not provide a copy of the brief 
that he claims to have mailed. Without a copy of the claimed brief, we cannot determine whether it 
identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed, and the 
regulations would still require summary dismissal of the appeal. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that, in our decision summarily dismissing the appeal, we advised him that 
he could file a motion to reopen and/or reconsider. As reflected in the procedural history summarized 
above, he filed an untimely motion in response to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Although we 
initially dismissed the motion as untimely, we later reviewed the motion to reopen on its merits after 
exercising our discretion to excuse the late filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). However, as discussed 
in our July 2020 decision, the motion to reopen did not include evidence showing proper cause to 
reopen the appeal because it did not include new facts or evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner 
had filed a brief or other statement in support of the appeal, or otherwise demonstrating that the 
summary dismissal of the appeal was not warranted. The purpose of a motion following the dismissal 
of an appeal is to address issues raised in the appellate decision, not to revisit the Director's initial 
adverse decision. 
Finally, the Petitioner addresses correspondence he received from this office, dated September 25, 
2019. In that correspondence, we acknowledged receipt of a letter from the Petitioner relating to his 
first motion to reopen and reconsider with receipt number, which we had dismissed as untimely filed 
4 
in June 2019. 1 Our correspondence refers to the filing in question as an "untimely appeal" and 
indicates that it was being returned to the service center, which would determine whether it met the 
requirements of a motion, pursuant to 8 C.F.R.§ 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(2). Regretfully, this 
correspondence appears to have been issued in error. Although the Petitioner has filed two appeals 
since the denial of his immigrant petition, the first one was summarily dismissed for the reasons 
discussed above, and the second appeal (filed in response to the dismissal of the first combined motion) 
was rejected on jurisdictional grounds because there is no regulatory provision that allows us to review 
an appeal of one of our own decisions. The record reflects that the Petitioner has not filed an untimely 
appeal at any point in these proceedings, and we clarify that none of the Petitioner's previous filings 
have provided any basis to return this matter to the Nebraska Service Center for review. 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence 
demonstrating proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the current motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must demonstrate that our 
immediate prior decision (issued July 14, 2021), contained errors of fact, law, or policy that affected 
the outcome of the decision. 2 
In his brief, the Petitioner does not assert that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our 
decision dismissing his fourth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Rather, he claims for the 
first time that he did in fact submit a brief in support of his initial appeal of the Director's decision. 
As discussed above, he has not submitted any evidence in support of this claim. He emphasizes, in 
the alternative, that he has since raised alleged errors in the Director's decision in his subsequent 
motions. However, as explained, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's 
denial decision was in the appeal filed in September 2018 and the record reflects that he did avail 
himself of this opportunity when he filed his appeal. The filing of the appeal did not create or preserve 
any right for the Petitioner to dispute the Director's denial in subsequent motions. 
The Petitioner's motion, because it does not demonstrate that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS 
policy in dismissing his fourth motion, does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. Rather, the 
Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope of this fifth 
motion. The Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence sufficient to overcome our 
determination that summary dismissal was the proper, and required, outcome when presented with an 
appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. 
1 It appears that the conespondence from the Petitioner, dated July 18, 2019, was likely a statement he submitted in support 
of the appeal he filed on July 09, 2019. However, it contains no specific reference to his filing of that appeal. As noted, 
we rejected the Petitioner's second appeal as improperly filed in October 2019. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
5 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 06, 2024 In Re: 30681097 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification by meeting at 
least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), it did not establish that she 
possessed the requisite sustained national or international acclaim to demonstrate her eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dancer who performs in the area of contemporary dance. She earned a master of 
fine arts degree in dance from the I I in 2008, and has 
participated in several dance workshops and residencies. She states that she intends to continue 
performing contemporary dance in the United States as a solo artist and as part of a troupe. 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met six of the ten evidentiary criteria: 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), Documentation of the alien's membership in associations 
in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements 
of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields, 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for 
which classification is sought, 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or 
on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization for which classification is sought, 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases, and 
• 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
2 
We agree that the record establishes that the Petitioner has met at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, 
and thus meets the initial evidence requirements for classification as an individual of exceptional 
ability. 1 
A. Final Merits Determination 
As noted above, once an individual has established that they meet the initial evidence requirement, we 
conduct a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine whether an individual has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of their field of endeavor, and that their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. As extraordinary 
ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a judgement call, it 
cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. The final merits 
determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as 
demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 
(2022). 
Here, the Director noted that although the record includes substantial evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's ability and career as a dancer up to 2014, such as articles about her and her work and her 
receipt of awards and selections to participate in artistic residencies, there was no evidence regarding 
performances, or indicia of acclaim or recognition, after 2014. Similarly, although the Petitioner 
provided recently-dated reference letters from her colleagues and other experts in the field of 
contemporary dance, the Director noted that they referred to her accomplishments from 2014 or earlier. 
Based on this, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established that she had enjoyed 
sustained acclaim as a dancer at the national or international level. 
We note that one of those reference letters, from C-M-, Vice President of Programming for the 
_______ was nearly identical to a letter in the record that he wrote in support of the 
Petitioner's petition for 0-1 nonimmigrant status more than a decade earlier. This underscores that 
this individual was not aware of any further achievements made by the Petitioner as a dancer since he 
wrote his initial letter. While he, and the other letter writers who had previously written letters on the 
Petitioner's behalf, can be understood to have renewed their endorsements of her, none of them focus 
on more recent accomplishments or contributions made by the Petitioner to the field of contemporary 
dance. They are thus insufficient to show that she had sustained the acclaim she achieved before 2014 
in the intervening period, particularly in light of the lack of other evidence in the record concerning 
the Petitioner's acclaim and recognition during that period. 
When responding to the Director's NOID, the Petitioner included new evidence showing that she had 
recently joined new dance projects which were set to occur or debut in the future. This evidence 
responded to the Director's concerns about whether she intended to continue in her area of expertise, 
as he had focused on her decision to study classical Chinese medicine and related areas beginning in 
3 1 The Director stated in his notice of intent to deny (NOID) that the Petitioner also met the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to her original contributions of major significance to her field. Without explanation, 
the Director did not indicate that she met this criterion in his decision. Because the Petitioner has established that she 
meets at least the required three of the evidentiary criteria, we will not address the evidence of her original contributions 
separately in our decision, but will consider it as part of the totality of the record in the final merits determination. 
2014. Although this evidence served to support the Petitioner's stated intention to continue in her 
career as a dancer in the United States, it did not resolve the issue of a gap of more than eight years 
during which the Petitioner did not perform, win awards, review the work of others, or have articles 
about her published in professional or major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially states that her decision to study classical Chinese medicine is 
common in the dance and performance arts fields, where artists pursue "other somatic, i.e. relating to 
the body, disciplines." In support of this assertion she submits new evidence for the first time on 
appeal, including a new letter from R-W-, a renowned theater artist and founder of an artist residency 
program in which the Petitioner participated. This also includes a list of passages taken from the 
online biographies of some ofthe letter writers, all discussing the writers' study of somatic techniques. 
But where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been 
given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the 
first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N 
Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The Director's NOID provided the Petitioner with notice of his concerns 
regarding this period of her career, and the Petitioner timely responded. 
Further, even ifwe were to consider this evidence in addition to the Petitioner's initial filing and NOID 
response, it does not cure the deficiency discussed in the Director's decision. We acknowledge that 
dancers and other artists frequently do not pursue conventional or linear career paths, and that they 
may take time away from performing or creating to develop their craft. But to demonstrate eligibility 
as an individual of exceptional ability, they like all petitioners must establish that not only have they 
achieved national or international acclaim, but that that acclaim has been sustained. In addition, 
eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability must be established at the time of 
filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971). 
Here, the record shows that at the time the Petitioner filed her petition, she had been studying Chinese 
medicine, meditation, and tai chi for several years, and that that activity, even if related to her field of 
expertise, did not gamer her the acclaim and recognition she had previously received while performing 
as a contemporary dancer. 
The Petitioner next asserts that after completing her studies, the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
worldwide efforts to mitigate its effects made performance impossible for those in her field. As the 
pandemic's impact on those in the arts and entertainment fields, as well as many others, is common 
knowledge, we have taken that impact into consideration in making our determination. But even prior 
to the pandemic's beginnings in early 2020, the Petitioner had already not performed in her field for 
many years, and the evidence does not show that she had sustained her previous acclaim in that period. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that she has "been spending time researching drafting plans and exploring 
choreographic approaches for [her] new performance piece," I ] 
While she also mentioned this project when responding to the Director's NOID, the record does not 
include any evidence concerning its development. More importantly, the record does not show that 
the Petitioner's ongoing work has garnered acclaim for a performance piece she does not expect to 
debut until the autumn of 2025. 
4 
B. 0-1 B Nonimmigrant Status 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has previously worked in O-lB status and held that status at the 
time of filing this petition, and that this classification is reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. Although USCIS has approved at least three 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions filed 
on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant 
visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The 
nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons 
working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field ofarts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 category means 
distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects 
that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. Moreover, each petition 
is separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding 
statutory and regulatory provisions. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one ofthe small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of contemporary dance. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We therefore agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
established her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 6, 2024 In Re: 30644310 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner's Field of Expertise 
In Part 6 of the petition, the Petitioner listed his job title for the proposed employment as 
coach/instructor. In the support letter, the Petitioner explained he achieved "top placement" in Brazilian 
Jiu-Jitsu (BJJ) by placing at the top in important BJJ championships, and because of his success as a 
competitor in the sport of BJJ he transitioned into other areas in the field as a coach and referee. The 
Petitioner further explained that he wishes to continue his career in the United States as an athlete and 
coach and referee of extraordinary ability "contributing to the growth of the sport of BJJ in the United 
States and the whole world." In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Manager ofl I I Iconfirming that the Petitioner will work at that facility as head instructor and 
co-owner located inl !Arkansas. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states he is unequivocally a BJJ athlete who intends to continue working in 
his field of expertise. He goes on to state that while the term coach is sometimes used broadly in BJJ, 
it is customary for higher-ranking belt athletes to mentor and guide less experienced athletes. He also 
claims that his primary and intended field of endeavor will be to continue his work as an athlete of 
extraordinary ability in BJJ, and that due to his extraordinary ability as a BJJ athlete and competitor 
he will pursue coaching and ownership roles in the United States. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner intends to work in the United States as a co-owner and instructor at 
a BJJ school. While the Petitioner claims he will continue his role as an athlete, he did not provide 
evidence he will compete in competitions as a BJJ athlete. On appeal, the Petitioner submits an 
updated letter from the school where he will be employed in the United States that indicated the 
Petitioner will continue as a BJJ competitor, but this statement is not corroborated by the Petitioner. 
The statute and regulations require a petitioner's national or international acclaim to be sustained and that 
he or she seeks to continue work in the area ofexpertise in the United States. See sections 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
and (ii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ l 153(b)(l)(A)(i) and (ii), and 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3) and (5). While 
a coach for students ofBJJ and a BJJ athlete and competitor share knowledge ofthe sport, the two rely 
on very different sets of basic skills. Thus, coaching and management of a school differ from 
competitive BJJ and do not require the same area of expertise. This interpretation has been upheld in 
federal court. In Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002), the court stated: 
2 
It is reasonable to interpret continuing to work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" 
as working in the same profession in which one has extraordinary ability, not 
necessarily in any profession in that field. For example, Lee's extraordinary ability as 
a baseball player does not imply that he also has extraordinary ability in all positions 
or professions in the baseball industry such as a manager, umpire or coach. 
Id. at 918. The court noted a consistent history in this area; see also Mussarova v. Garland, 562 
F.Supp.3d 837 (C.D. Ca. 2022) (determining that the plaintiffs awards as a water polo player were 
not awarded as a water polo coach); Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. USCIS, 
131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Oh. 2015) (concluding that the AAO's reasoning, relevant statutory and 
regulatory language, and case law was not arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with 
the law in finding that an Olympic gold medal gymnast must meet the extraordinary ability 
classification through her achievements as a coach, her intended area of expertise). 
While we acknowledge the possibility of the petitioner's extraordinary claim in more than one field, 
such as a BJJ competitor and a BJJ coach, a petitioner, however, must demonstrate "by clear evidence 
that the alien is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise." See the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 1 In this case, based on the record before us, the Petitioner intends 
to continue to work in the area of coaching and co-ownership of a school rather than competing as a 
full-time BJJ athlete. Thus, the Petitioner must satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) through 
the Petitioner's achievements as a coach and owner of a BJJ school. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner's awards for several BJJ competitions, while significant, 
do not constitute a major, internationally recognized prize that qualifies as a one-time achievement under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Further, on appeal, the Petitioner reiterates the same arguments regarding this 
issue and does not provide evidence to overcome the Director's concerns. Without such a prize, the 
Petitioner must submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet 
the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion, 
and we agree with that determination. 
1 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual provides: 
[I]n general, if a petitioner has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim in the field of coaching or managing at a national level, officers can consider the totality of the evidence as 
establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such that USCIS can conclude that coaching 
is within the petitioner's area of expertise. 
3 
The Petitioner claims he has won competitions at the highest level hosted by the International Brazilian 
Jiu Jitsu Federation (IBJJF). The Petitioner further contends that these IBJFF championships are 
considered the "biggest, most recognized and important BJJ championships in the sport of BJJ." The 
record reflects that the Petitioner has received numerous medals and accolades in the field jiu-jitsu. In 
support of the petition, the Petitioner submitted a list of medals and awards that he received between 
2011 and 2023, and he also submitted documentation indicating that he either placed first, second, or 
third place in these competitions. 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provided photographs of medals, screenshots from the websites of the event 
organizers, internet articles discussing the top ten prestigious jiu-jitsu competitions for competitors, 
and articles confirming his results in competitions. The Petitioner also submitted letters from various 
BJJ athletes discussing the Petitioner's career achievements and attesting to the prestigious reputations 
of their respective competitions. 2 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted was insufficient to meet the plain language on 
this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly challenge the Director's determination. 
Instead, the Petitioner generally points to the evidence submitted with the petition. 
Upon review, we conclude that while the recommendation letters from various BJJ athletes speak 
highly of the Petitioner and his accomplishments, they do not demonstrate that he has won nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. While several authors 
recount the various medals he received while competing at their events, there is insufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that his receipt of those medals constitutes national or international recognition in the 
martial arts field. 
Only one letter-the one by Team Co-Founder-indicated that the "IBJJF 
championships are internationally recognized events that attract thousands of athletes, from all over 
the world, to compete and achieve top placement and improve their international rank." A prize or an 
award does not gamer national or international recognition from the competition in which it is 
awarded, nor is it derived from the individual or group that issued the award. Rather, national and 
international recognition results through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the field 
nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example 
but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Additionally, unsupported 
conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a particular prize 
or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
While the Petitioner has submitted evidence of the various competitions and events in the field, and 
their perception within the field, the limited evidence of media coverage garnered by the Petitioner's 
awards in such competitions is insufficient to establish the level ofnational or international recognition 
associated with the medals he received at the various competitions discussed herein. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence in the form of web articles and industry statements identifying top 
competitions in the field, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's receipt of 
the claimed medals and awards were nationally or internationally recognized. 
2 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 
While the above materials, and the others in the record, confirm the Petitioner's receipt of these 
awards, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards won. 3 The 
record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of jiu-jitsu, as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not submitted 
documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based on being a member of the 
Team). The Petitioner explained that the0Team has affiliates in over 30 countries at hundreds 
of training centers with athletes and members throughout the world. To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in his field, and that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner pointed to a letter from the Team co-founder stating that the Team is "considered 
among the Top 5 BJJ teams in the world" and that the Petitioner is a "skilled professional athlete who 
proudly represents D Team in both training and competitions." However, the letter does not indicate 
the Team's membership requirements, nor does it show that outstanding achievements, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts, are required for membership. Upon review, the 
Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective evidence to demonstrate the selection process for 
members of the D Team as necessary to establish that outstanding achievements are required for 
membership. In sum, the Petitioner has provided little probative objective evidence to establish the 
basis for the selection its members and that outstanding achievements are required for membership on 
the team. 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the Petitioner has a 
membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the noncitizen in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the noncitizen 's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To establish this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the existence of published material about 
him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 
(providing guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) 
(noting relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field.) 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 
author of the material. 5 If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide 
whether professional or major trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that articles submitted from web portals 
were from a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media publication, as required. 
In addition, the Director stated that the Petitioner did not submit full translations and sufficient 
supporting documentation to demonstrate the probative value of other asserted articles posted on the 
internet about the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erroneously dismissed the submitted published 
material. For instance, the Petitioner emphasizes articles discussing his accomplishments published 
on Flograppling.com, Tatame.com, and Graciemag.com. The Petitioner contends that the "modem 
BJJ community predominantly relies on digital platforms and credible online publications to 
disseminate information, share news, and recognize excellence within the sport." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from a senior editor at Tatame Magazine that is responsible 
for the oversight of the website Tatame.com. Although the letter's author indicates that Tatame.com 
is "considered the leading media outlet to cover the Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu" and is a "major media outlet 
in the sport," the author does not provide sufficient information and context to those statements. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual ( discussing circulation or viewership ). The Petitioner did not 
submit sufficient material establishing the circulation statistics for Tatame.com, nor did he provide 
other circulation statistics in which to compare with this publication. 
In response to the request for evidence, the Petitioner indicated that Graciemag is considered a major 
trade publication that prints and distributes more than 30,000 copies per month with more than 10,000 
subscribers in both the printed and web versions. However, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
corroborating evidence to substantiate these claims. Further, the record does not contextualize those 
statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information could establish that the 
website is the type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For example, the 
Petitioner did not provide circulation statistics or data to compare the circulation of Graciemag with 
other publications to establish that it represented a major trade publication or major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicates articles from Flograppling.com establish this criterion, but the 
Petitioner did not submit information as to the circulation of this website, nor how its circulation 
compares to other publications. The Petitioner does not specifically articulate why the online articles 
should be considered professional or major trade publications or other major media, nor does he submit 
visitation data for these sites or comparisons to other websites to establish that they can be considered 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Although we observe that the documentary evidence reflects some published material about the 
Petitioner relating to his work as an athlete, the Petitioner has indicated that he will work as an 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
6 
instructor while in the United States. The plain language ofthe regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
requires "[p]]ublished material about the [ noncitizen] in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the [noncitizen's] work in the field for which classification is sought." 
Here, the Petitioner does not clearly articulate how the articles relate to his proposed work in the 
United States. Lee v. I.NS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002. 
After reviewing the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, the Petitioner has 
not met his burden of proof to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
C. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(i) 
and (viii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these 
remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
D. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition adjudicated on a different standard - statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. 
US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 
1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d at 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over 
the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to 
the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We therefore need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on 
6 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(3). 
7 
the issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 7 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 T&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) ( finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is othe1wise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15776474 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 7, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned his law degree in 2007. After serving in various government positions, he co­
founded a law firm inl O I A biographical sketch in the record indicates that "he 
has been working as a consultant for the Federal Public Service for Home Affair~ ~' and the 
General Directorate Aliens' Office] I' The Petitioner has provided legal services for local offices 
o~ land I I in I Las well asl ts Agency for Youth and 
Sport. The Petitioner entered the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student in 2018, studying for a 
Master of Law degree at~ HCollege of Law. He established a law firm inl I itj I 
2020, and now practice: 0 Jaw. His firm filed a nonimmigrant petition on the Petitioner's 
behalf in August 2020, five months after the filing of the present immigrant petition. The approval of 
that petition in November 2020, while the present appeal was pending, granted the Beneficiary status as 
an 0-1 nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability.1 
The Petitioner claims to have received a major, internationally reco nized award from,..._ ___ _,. § a business and legal news website headquartered in the 
presented the Petitioner with a Legal 2015 A ward for'-------.----------­
he "About Our Awards" page on the entity's website claims: 
A wards represent the pinnacle of business achievement, championing the best in their respective 
fields." I Is own promotional materials do not establish that the awards are 
internationally recognized. 
1 The record before us does not provide further information about the approval of the nonimmigrant petition, or show whether 
that approval relied on the same evidence now before us. We are not required to approve applications or petitions where 
eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of possibly erroneous approvals in separate proceedings. See Matter of 
Church Scientology Int'!, 19 T&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988). Furthermore, our authority over the service centers is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director had approved 
the nonimmigrant petitions on behalf of the petitioner, we would not be bound to follow the contradictory decision of a service 
center. Louisiana Philhannonic Orchestra v. INS, 44 F. Supp. 2d 800, 803 (E.D. La. 1999). 
2 
The Petitioner states that winners are selected through a global survey, and that the awarding entity 
has prestigious international partners including well-known law firms and the American Bar 
Association. The Petitioner asserts, therefore, that the award is comparable to a "Noble [sic] Prize." 
The entity's own website describes a two-step award process: "the first step is to receive a nomination 
through our entry form below. The nomination will then be assessed by the ~~-----~ 
team." The website lists various "media partnerships" but there is no indication that the partner entities 
have any input into the selection of award winners. Rather, the partners appear to be sponsors of the 
website. The record does not show who nominated the Petitioner for the award or how many others 
were nominated for the same award in 2015. 
I I announced the award winners in its own publication, but the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence to establish recognition of thd I Awards outside of the awarding 
entity itself. The record does not support the Petitioner's claim that the I I Awards 
have a level ofrecognition comparable to the Nobel Prize. 
The Petitioner also claims to satisfy five of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one criterion, relating to authorship of scholarly articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only one of the 
regulatory criteria. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts that, because the Director did not consider the.__ ________ __. Award to 
be a major, internationally recognized award, the Director should have considered the award under this 
criterion. The Petitioner, however, has not submitted any information about this award except for 
promotional materials from the awarding entity. Such materials, by their nature, cannot establish outside 
recognition of the awards. 
Certificates show that the Petitioner won three.__ ________ __. Awards from thel I 
I l A web printout in the record states: "The I I I I Award® is given to the highest scoring student in each law school class at many law 
schools .... About half of our 200 member law schools distribute~ards." I lmay be a 
national organization, but the pool of potential winners for any particular L_J Award is limited to the 
students in one class at one school (for example, 'I . I' atl O I 
College of Law). The Petitioner has not shown that these individual awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
3 
The Petitioder a)so cres two recommendation letters as qualifying prizes or awards. An education 
specialist at~_--~- s office inl I states that the Petitioner provided legal services connected to 
certain law and policy initiatives. The executive director of.__ ______ ---. ____ __. calls the 
Petitioner "one of the finest legal consultants we have ever had." Neither letter indicates that the Petitioner 
received any prize or award for his work, and the letters themselves are not prizes or awards; there is no 
indication that the issuance of these two reference letters received national or international recognition. 
Rather, these are em lo ent recommendation reference letters, intended for submission to prospective 
employers. T,_.,...... _ __, letter states: "I would highly recommend [the Petitioner] for any professional 
endeavor"; the.__ _ __.letter states that the Petitioner "will be a valuable addition to any company" and 
"an extremely positive asset to your organization." These letters enthusiastically recommend the 
Petitioner to prospective employers, but they are not prizes or awards, nor do they indicate that the 
Petitioner won prizes or awards for the work described. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
A letter from thel I Bar Associatio~ lindicates that the Petitioner "has been a delegate 
to the Assembly ofthel IBar As~ with a mandate period from 2014-2018 and 2018-
2022 as a delegate from the Law Communit)L__J4." The Petitioner asserts that his status as a delegate 
is a qualifying membership, because "the Assembly is the highest body of the Bar," and his election to 
the assembly establishes that his "achievements are recognized nationally." A translated copy of the 
Assembly's Charter, however, states: "The Assembly elects one Delegate for every ten lawyers from a 
single law community," indicating that ten percent of all bar association members are also delegates. 
(Emphasis added.) Furthermore, the reference to "a single law community" indicates that the elections 
are local, rather than national. In the Petitioner's case, the Charter established four law communities in 
the city of ~nd the letter from the Bar Association states that he is "a delegate from the Law 
CommunityL___j.'' 
There is no evidence that any lawyers outside thel I law community voted for that community's 
delegates, and no indication that the votes were contingent on outstanding achievements by candidates. 
The Petitioner maintains that, given the nature of the selection process, "only those who have outstanding 
achievements will be selected," but a letter from the organization indicates that "lawyers elect their 
representatives," indicating that the selections are made by the general membership rather than any 
designated group or panel of recognized national or international experts. The Petitioner acknowledges 
that "all members of the bar" are eligible to vote, but he asserts that "at least some [voters] will have 
national recognition itj t' The abiliJ to vote, however, is not restricted to lawyers with such 
recognition. The statistical possibility that the I J I law community probably includes prominent 
lawyers is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner cites an "expert opinion letter" from an attorney and adjunct professor in New York, who 
states: "As with any such organization, the I I requires outstanding achievements of its members for 
4 
such an important and high-profile position. Not only are outstanding achievements required but also 
recognition as [the Petitioner] had to be nominated to this position by his peers and then had to win 
election amongst others who were al~inated." The individual who wrote this letter does not 
establish first-hand familiarity with thel___Js delegate election process, nor does she cite any sources 
for her claims of fact. The record does not establish any specific facts about the Petitioner's election to 
his delegate position. For instance, the record does not show that the election was in fact contested 
between different nominees. The Petitioner cites this same letter in support of other claims, but the letter 
essentially repeats the Petitioner's own claims without citing specific, objective support for them. 
Thel lis an association in the field, but the record does not establish ( and the Petitioner does not 
claim) that it requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judgld by rcognized national or 
international experts. The Petitioner relies on his membership not in the as a whole, but in its 
Assembly. The information in the record, however, does not establish that the Assembly is an association 
in the field in its own right. Rather, it is the governing body for thel I 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As noted above, the Petitioner submits letters from locall I officials ofj land ~--~I In addition to claiming that these letters are prizes or awards as discussed above, the Petitioner 
also contends that they show he performed in leading or critical roles for both organizations. The letters 
show that the Petitioner performed specified tasks for both organizations, such as "comparative analysis 
of ECEC policies and laws in the region." 
The Petitioner also submits copies of agreements indicating that the I !Alien Office temporarily 
hired him "to help thd I Desk Accessibility ... expand an information platform on access to health 
care in countries of origin." The Petitioner's role consisted of "answering ... Questions and Answers" 
and "drafting a country questionnaire whose content focuses on the healthcare system." The Petitioner 
does not establish that this work amounted to a critical role, rather than an ad hoc advisory capacity. 
The Petitioner asserts that he "was a 'leader' [ for JI I because the letter shows that he "managef d] 
a team of legal experts," and that his role was critical because his engagement permittedl to 
"accomplish their goal of gaining approval for their proposed provisions." The Petitioner asserts that his 
work for I ~as critical because, accorjing to Tat organization's letter, his work 
produced "outstanding results." With regard to his work for government agency, the Petitioner 
states that his work was essential because the contracts indicated that the agency "required the insight of 
a specialist." The Petitioner cites a dictionary definition of "require" as "to demand as necessary or 
essential: have a compelling need for." 
We have taken these arguments into consideration, but we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that 
his narrow and limited involvement as a legal consultant was critical to any of these organizations. Also, 
the Petitioner did not have a leading role forl I at the organizational level, and he has not shown 
that the "team of legal experts" was, itself: an organization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. The submitted letters and contracts show that the organizations retained the Petitioner's 
5 
services in order to meet specific goals, but it does not follow that a reason for employment amounts to a 
critical role. Every employee fulfills some kind of role that benefits their employer in some way. Here, 
the Petitioner has not established that his work for the above entities was critical to the organizations 
themselves, rather than to the outcome of specific, limited tasks or projects. 
The Petitioner has documented his work for well-known organizations, but he has not established that his 
tasks there amounted to leading or critical roles. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published material about the individual in professional or other major 
trade publications or other major media, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve this issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his occasional work for high-profile 
clients, and his service as a delegate to a governing body that includes 10% of all I I members, 
establishes the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner bears the 
burden of proof in this proceeding, and his assertions regarding his awards, his~ delegate position, 
and other accomplishments lack sufficient corroboration. The objective documentation in the record 
indicates more limited impact and recognition. For example, the Petitioner co-wrote a chapter in a 
law textbook, but the only documented use of that textbook is in a course taught by the book's editor. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 07, 2024 In Re: 29835003 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a post-doctoral research fellow in the neuroscience field, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the 
implementing regulations for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; they seek to enter 
the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United 
States will substantially benefit the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can provide evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that they meet at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial 
evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination). 
The Petitioner is a research scientist who was working as a post-doctoral research fellow in the 
neuroscience field for a U.S. medical school when the petition was filed. Because the Petitioner has 
not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She claims that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the three claimed criteria. Specifically, 
the Director concluded that she has authored scholarly articles in her field and participated as a judge 
of the work of others in that field and thus satisfied the plain language of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied 
these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not carefully review and consider the evidence 
submitted in support of her claim that she has made original contributions of major significance in her 
field, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Upon review, we agree that the Director's determination with respect to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) was conclusory and did not adequately address the Petitioner's specific claims and 
evidence. When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
Cf., Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding at a decision must fully explain the reasons 
for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination 
on appeal). Here, the Director's decision, which relied in significant part on templated language, did 
not satisfy this requirement. 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the 
[noncitizen's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field." In evaluating evidence submitted under this criterion, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) first determines whether a petitioner has made original contributions in 
their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the 
Agency should then determination whether a petitioner's contributions are of "major significance." Id. 
Here, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner articulated her specific original contributions to 
the field and submitted supporting evidence that included eight letters from experts in her field, her 
citation history from Google Scholar, copies of published research and review articles that cite to her 
work, information regarding the journals where her research findings have been published, evidence 
intended to support her claim that some of her articles have been highly cited, and other evidence 
2 
intended to provide context to the nature and significance of her research contributions. While the 
Director noted the Petitioner's submission of this relevant evidence, it is difficult to discern what 
specific evidence the Director ultimately considered in their evaluation of this criterion, because the 
stated reasons for denial contain few, if any, references to the specific claims and supporting 
documentation she provided. 
For example, the Director did not specifically address any of the eight letters submitted as expert 
testimony. Instead, the decision reaches a conclusory determination that the letters did not explain 
"how [the Petitioner's] research amounted to original work, and how her specific contributions to the 
research projects impacted the field as a whole." Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining 
the nature and significance of the person's contributions may provide valuable context for evaluating 
claims regarding original contributions of major significance. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(8)( 1 ). Here, the Director offered an inadequate explanation as to why they found the 
letters to be lacking in probative value. 
The Director further acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that some citations to her work were 
"notable" but found, contrary to the evidence submitted, that there was "no evidence in the record" to 
support her claim. In fact, each of the submitted expert opinion letters addressed notable citations to 
the Petitioner's published work and commented on the significance of such citations. The Director 
also concluded that the record established only "a moderate number of citations to the petitioner's 
work," but did not explain that conclusion considering the Petitioner provided evidence indicating that 
at least two of her published articles were among the top 10 percent most cited in her field. Under 
USCIS policy, "documentation that [published research] has been highly cited relative to others' work 
in that field . . . may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor." 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
While the Director is not required to provide a detailed discussion of every piece of evidence the 
Petitioner submitted, the decision here was too general to convey that it was based on a reasoned 
consideration all relevant evidence in the record and did not adequately explain the specific reasons 
for denial. Accordingly, the Director's decision is withdrawn, and the matter will be remanded to the 
Director to re-evaluate the evidence submitted under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and to 
issue a new decision. 
If, after further review on remad, the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies this third criterion, 
the new decision should include a final merits determination evaluating whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international claim, that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 7, 2024 In Re: 31090604 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a business executive who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the 
Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. The Director decided 
that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to the same three criteria the Director denied in their decision. 
The Director's denial raised an issue associated with the Petitioner's foreign language evidence that 
was translated into English. On appeal the Petitioner remedied the issue. Because the Director did 
not fully analyze the Petitioner's evidence under the remaining three criteria, we will remand the 
matter for consideration . However, we offer no indication whether the Petitioner ' s evidence should 
satisfy any of the criteria the Director might consider. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26480903 Date: MAY 08, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a showjumping horse groom, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a 
one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. 1 USCIS must consider whether the regulatory criteria are 
readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation.2 A petitioner should explain why he has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3).3 General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an 
occupation are not probative and should be discounted.4 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts she is an individual of extraordinary ability as agroom for showjumping horses. 
The record reflects that a horse groom oversees the horse's management, particularly during the 
exhaustion and stress of travel and competitions. Grooms reinforce the training already in place, 
monitor for injuries, and care for the horse's physical and emotional health. Distinct from 
veterinarians and farriers, a groom professionally assesses the horse's welfare, prepares the horse for 
competition, and administers nutrition and medicines, among other duties. The Petitioner provided 
evidence clarifying that grooms for showjumping horses differ from grooms for other equestrian 
disciplines. She explained the Federation Equestre Internationale (FEI) is the sole governing body for 
showjumping competitions and that it represents the ultimate level of difficulty for both horses and 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id at 12. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
riders worldwide. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's determination that she has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award. Therefore, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Prior to this appeal, the Petitioner asserted her eligibility 
under numerous criteria, including 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (viii), and (ix). The Director 
determined the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
related to performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations, but 
that she had not established eligibility under any of the other criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
the Director erred in determining the evidentiary criteria apply to her occupation and in not accepting 
the Petitioner's alternate evidence under criteria (i) and (ii) as comparable. 5 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate she received prizes or awards, and that 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.6 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the individual's 
receipt ofthe awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt ofthe awards or prizes.7 
The Petitioner explained that by regulation, FEI limits competitors to only riders and horses. She stated, 
she cannot receive awards because grooms are not considered competition participants. Various articles 
describe grooms as unsung heroes, essential and vital behind-the-scenes workers, and not formally 
recognized stakeholders in acompetition. The Petitioner submitted numerous letters from showjumping 
riders and other horse support staff explaining that the best evidence of a groom's ability is the awards, 
recognition, and achievements of the riders/horses with whom a groom works. Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner acknowledges an FEI Groom of the Year award exists in her field. However, she does not 
assert she won this or any other award. Instead, she provided other evidence, which she asserts is 
comparable. 
The Petitioner explained why the FEI Groom of the Year award does not meet the plain language of this 
criterion for various reasons, including that it is not awarded for excellence in the field. The Petitioner 
recognizes awards exist for her field but argues that awards for excellence do not exist in her field. 
Although the Petitioner provided the reasoning the FEI Groom of the Year award does not establish her 
5 Because she has not raised them on appeal, we consider issues related to the Director's determination of her ineligibility 
under the other criteria to have been abandoned. See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 {BIA 2012) (stating 
that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda 
v. US Att'v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 
(11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) 
(plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
7 Id. 
3 
eligibility under this criterion, her ineligibility under this criterion does not establish that an award does 
not or could not exist in her field. 
Even if the Petitioner established the criterion does not apply to her field of endeavor, we would still 
conclude the evidence provided is not comparable. First, there is little independent and objective evidence 
linking the Petitioner to any particular horses or riders in the competition. The competition result printouts 
and rankings do not name the Petitioner and other evidence indicates that media coverage for grooms is 
nonexistent or rare. The support letters appear to be the only evidence establishing aconnection between 
the Petitioner's management of the horse(s) and any particular competitions, riders, or award(s). The 
Director explained, the letters, "while not without weight, cannot form the cornerstone of asuccessful 
petition." Similarly, we conclude the letters from former employers and coworkers are probative but 
not necessarily sufficient to evidence the Petitioner's role as a groom or her extraordinary ability in 
the field. 8 
Even if the Petitioner provided independent and objective evidence to establish a link between her 
work and a particular horse/rider/competition, we could not conclude her work is the primary reason 
for the rider/horse winning the award. The evidence suggests thousands of grooms exist in the 
occupation and that a groom can metaphorically add or subtract zeros to the monetary value of a horse. 
The Petitioner further explained that riders choose their grooms. Despite the number of grooms and their 
purported importance, the evidence does not indicate what factors riders consider when choosing their 
grooms. Moreover, the Petitioner has not explained how riders know about which grooms to choose. We 
do not know, for example, if riders select available grooms through adatabase, a groom ranking system, 
word of mouth, poaching other riders' grooms after a competition, or simply accepting the groom that 
works with the horse they select. The evidence does not illuminate how many grooms each horse has 
or how many horses each groom has under their care. 
Nor does the evidence offer a direct comparison ofthe Petitioner's abilities to other grooms' abilities. 
The authors of the support letters do not provide detailed explanations of what they considered when 
choosing the Petitioner as their groom or how many times they selected the Petitioner over another 
groom, nor does the record contain the selection rates of other grooms. The evidence does not reflect 
how many of the Petitioner's horses did not win awards, that all the Petitioner's horses performed 
equally, or that her horses outperformed other grooms' horses so consistently and to such extent that 
we could isolate the Petitioner's ability as the reason. Further, the record does not indicate that due to 
the Petitioner's work, individual horses have sold at a higher dollar amount than other horses. As the 
evidence does not establish a baseline for any groom's ability, nor does it offer a sufficient comparison 
between grooms, we conclude the evidence, including the support letters, is not comparable. 
Although the Petitioner's field of endeavor may present evidentiary challenges for the extraordinary 
ability classification, we cannot lower the standard of proof, shift the Petitioner's burden, change the 
plain language of the criteria, or accept evidence that is not comparable. The Petitioner must support 
her assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 
369, 376 (AAO 2010). We conclude the criterion applies to the Petitioner's field of endeavor and that 
8 Many of the letters contain identical language with signature pages that differ in appearance from the rest of the letter. 
This undermines a conclusion that the authors independently wrote their letters and further suggests the authors signed 
letters written on their behalf. 
4 
even if it did not, the evidence provided would not be comparable. For the foregoing reasons, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.9 
The Petitioner does not assert she is a member of either the International Grooms Association (IGA), 
which describes itselfas "professional association for grooms who compete at PEI international level," 
or of the British Grooms Association (BGA). The Petitioner provides the reasoning and analysis for 
why membership in the IGA and BGA would not establish her eligibility under this criterion, but in 
so doing, she acknowledges that associations do exist in her field of endeavor. As with the criterion 
discussed above, the Petitioner's ineligibility under this criterion does not establish the inapplicability 
of this criterion to her. 
Even if the Petitioner established the criterion does not apply to her field of endeavor, we would still 
conclude the evidence is not comparable. The Petitioner asserted that her horses/riders participated in 
elite teams, series, and finals, and that as a prerequisite for these, national and international experts 
determined that such riders/horses had outstanding achievements. Because her riders/horses qualified 
for the teams, series, and finals, the Petitioner asserts their involvement and outstanding achievement 
is comparable evidence under this criterion. 
Even if we were to accept that elite teams, series, and finals constitute "associations," within the 
meaning of this criterion, such associations would not be in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. Rather, 
the associations would be for riders and showjumpers. A rider's outstanding achievements are as a 
rider and a horse's as a showjumper; neither's achievements are in the groom field of endeavor. 
Viewing the evidence in the manner the Petitioner requests, i.e., that a groom's outstanding 
achievements are determined based upon the horse or rider's performance, we still conclude the 
evidence is not comparable for the same reasons we explained in our analysis of the prior criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude the criterion applies to the Petitioner's field of endeavor and 
that even if it did not, the evidence provided would not be comparable. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
not established eligibility under this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of 
extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed 
on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5 
visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and case law. 
Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. V. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA us V. 
US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 
1108, aff'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 
(E.D. La. 2000). 
C. Summary 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement award, 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria, or comparable evidence. As a result, we need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude the Petitioner's assertions 
negate a finding of acclaim and recognition. Specifically, the Petitioner stated she performs behind­
the-scenes work, is an unsung hero not formally recognized in a competition, and that media attention 
for her is rare or nonexistent. Accordingly, the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perf01ming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field or that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19336659 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 9, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal 
and three subsequent motions. The matter is now before us on a fourth motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' authority 
to reconsider to instances where an applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(iii) (such as submission of a properly completed and signed Form I-290B, Notice of 
Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. Specifically, a motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In these proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's third motion, we determined that the 
Petitioner did not show that we erroneously applied law or policy in deciding that he did not meet the 
awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that we erred in reserving a determination on his intent to 
continue to work in his area of expertise under section 203(b )(l)(A)(ii) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the prior adverse decision. Accordingly, 
we examine any new arguments to the extent that they pertain to our dismissing his third motion. 
Thus, the issue before us is whether we erred in determining that he did not establish that we 
incorrectly applied law or policy in dismissing his prior motion to reconsider. 
In the current motion, the Petitioner submits an almost identical brief from his third motion. See 
Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process 
by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally 
alleging error in the prior decision). Here, our most recent decision thoroughly analyzed and explained 
why the indicated evidence and claimed arguments did not meet the regulatory requirements. Because 
he provides the same assertions with essentially the same brief, which we have previously and 
carefully addressed, the Petitioner did not establish that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our 
prior decision dismissing his third motion. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing how 
we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a 
ground to reconsider our decision. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his current 
motion meets the requirements for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, 
we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 9, 2024 In Re: 30624545 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an autonomous systems and robotics engineer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher in the field of autonomous systems and robotics engineering. He intends 
to continue to conduct research in this field in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record 
supports this determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)( v) related to original contributions of major significance in the field and contends that 
the Director did not sufficiently analyze his assertions and the submitted evidence with respect to this 
criterion. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)( v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l) , https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual. For example, the 
Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
The Petitioner initially submitted documentation regarding his research, as well as copies of his 
scientific articles and citation records, scientific articles written by others who cite his work, evidence 
2 
of a patent, evidence of funding he received for his work, and testimonial letters from others in the 
field in support ofhis eligibility under this criterion. The Director found this evidence insufficient and 
requested additional evidence in the form of objective documentary evidence demonstrating that his 
contributions were both original and of major significance to the field. 
In response, the Petitioner asserted that the Director erroneously discounted evidence regarding 
funding he had received for his work from prestigious organizations in the field, noting that his work 
has been funded by grants from organizations such as National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(NASA), the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR), and the National Science Foundation 
(NSF). Noting that these organizations have international recognition for outstanding research, the 
Petitioner asserted that his receipt of fonding from these organizations demonstrates that leading 
groups in the field have recognized the originality and major significance of his work. 
The Petitioner further asserted that the Director did not afford sufficient weight to his citation history 
and testimonial letters. Specifically, he contended that the citations to his work by others in the field 
show that his research has garnered uncommon levels of attention. Regarding the testimonial letters, 
he asserted that the statements in the letters contain direct examples of how his work constitutes 
original contributions of major significance to the field. The Petitioner also submitted additional 
testimonial letters and an updated citation index in response to the request for evidence (RFE). 
In the denial decision, the Director stated that the testimonial letters discussing the Petitioner's work 
in the field lacked specificity regarding how his achievements have affected the field as a whole or 
how they are being reproduced within the field. The Director also determined the Petitioner's citation 
history was not indicative of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision did not address the evidence he submitted 
with any specificity and instead summarily concluded that the evidence was insufficient. The 
Petitioner's appellate submission provides an overview ofevidence submitted initially and in response 
to the RFE and contends that the Director's decision "erred by dismissing or completely ignoring 
critical pieces of evidence." Specifically, the Petitioner states that the Director did not discuss any 
specific deficiencies regarding documents submitted to demonstrate his contributions of major 
significance, and further asserts that the Director improperly dismissed evidence without proper 
explanation. 
The record contains numerous letters from researchers in the field whose endorsements contain 
detailed discussions of their use of the Petitioner's research for their own projects, as well as 
descriptions of references made to the Petitioner's work in research publications. The record also 
includes the articles referenced and objective analysis concerning citation percentiles to support the 
Petitioner's claim of influence in the field of autonomous systems and robotics engineering. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern based on the Director's decision 
what specific evidence was considered in reaching the unfavorable determination. As the decision 
only vaguely referenced the testimonial letters in the analysis of this criterion, without discussing the 
content of the letters or any other documentation provided, the Petitioner appropriately observes on 
appeal that "it is unclear if the officer has read the letters of support." In addition to detailed 
testimonial letters from researchers in the field, the Petitioner's evidence in support of this criterion 
3 
also included his citation records and information regarding the governmental entities that have funded 
his previous work. The Director's decision does not specifically address a single piece of that 
evidence, nor does it evaluate the Petitioner's response to the RFE or the additional evidence submitted 
aside from noting that the evidence "shows the [Petitioner] provides valuable research." 
An officer must fully explain the specific reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, for the reasons discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately 
explain the reasons for denial. As such, the Petitioner was not provided a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully 
explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to 
challenge the determination on appeal). 
On remand, the Director is instrncted to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief, which further addresses the previously submitted evidence. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national 
or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 10, 2024 In Re: 30470588 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a process engineering manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner subsequently filed a 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which the Director dismissed. The Petitioner 
now appeals the Director's dismissal of the combined motions. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we emphasize that the Petitioner has not appealed the April 6, 2023 denial of 
the Form I-140 itself, but rather the Director's subsequent dismissal ofhis combined motions to reopen 
and reconsider dated September 1, 2023. In the September 2023 decision, the Director did not affirm 
the prior denial but rather, the Director concluded that the motions did not meet the applicable 
requirements. Therefore, the question before us on appeal is whether the Director erred in dismissing the 
combined motions. Although the April 2023 denial is not before us, we will refer to portions of that 
decision for context. 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he satisfied six of ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), high remuneration for services. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to six 
of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and concluded he satisfied only one 
criterion. Specifically, the Director concluded the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate a leading 
or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On combined motions to reopen and reconsider and on appeal, the Petitioner does not pursue his initial 
claims that he meets the criteria relating to lesser awards, membership in associations, and 
participations as a judge, nor does he contest the Director's conclusions regarding these issues. We 
therefore consider those issues abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
2 
As noted, the Director dismissed the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The Director noted that although the Petitioner submitted new documents on motion, the supporting 
documents "came into existence" after the initial filing date of the original Form I-140. The Director 
also noted the Petitioner failed to state a reason for reconsideration and did not indicate that the 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director disregarded the motion without a proper review of the 
statements contained in the brief, and that were heavily supported by pieces of evidence, to 
demonstrate the Petitioner is a "well-known" process engineering manager. The Petitioner also 
"agrees that a petitioner is not encouraged to submit essentially new facts and evidence that had not 
been in existence at the time ofthe filing" but the Petitioner contends that what is important is whether 
the facts and information within the documents occurred prior to the date of filing. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). A motion to reopen is designed to 
afford a petitioner an opportunity to submit new facts-facts that existed on the date a petition was filed­
and to support those facts with evidence. It is not intended to allow a petitioner to improve upon the 
previously deficient claims that failed to meet the clearly identified eligibility requirements. And as we 
noted, on motion a petitioner must still establish eligibility at the time of filing; a petition cannot be 
approved at a future date after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l2); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971). We generally do not 
"consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Matter ofIzummi, 22 
I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998) (citing Matter ofBardouille, 18 T&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981)). 
Ultimately, in order to be meritorious in fact, a petition must meet the statutory and regulatory 
requirements for approval as of the date it was filed. Ogundipe v. Mukasey, 541 F.3d 257, 261 (4th Cir. 
2008). 
Upon review of the documentation the Petitioner submitted on motion, we agree with the Director that 
several of the submitted documents affirm facts about the Petitioner that occurred after the filing of 
the instant petition. 
For example, the Petitioner submitted documentation to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) to establish he commands a high remuneration for services, but those documents 
verified his salary in 2023, nearly two years after he filed the Form I-140 in July 2021. On motion, 
the Petitioner submitted an offer letter it executed with on January 25, 2023. 
The letter indicated an offer of the position of project manager, powertrain, with the anticipated start 
date of March 12, 2023, and indicated the Petitioner would earn an annual base salary of $150,000, an 
equity award, and a target incentive bonus. The Petitioner also submitted three copies of his pay 
statements in 2023, and an email dated March 31, 2023, that notified the Petitioner that his 
restricted stock units were issued. USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
eligibility for the benefit it is seeking at the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )( 1 ). A 
visa petition may not be approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after the Petitioner or 
Beneficiary becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See Matter of Michelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N 
Dec. 248,249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). 
On motion, the Petitioner also submitted documentation in support of his original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner submitted a recommendation letter from the Senior Management -
Manufacturing Engineering Manager atOoutlining the Petitioner's contributions to the company. 
The author stated the Petitioner "helped tremendously in industrializing zero emission electric vehicle" 
forl I As noted above, the offer letter with I lindicated a March 12, 2023 employment start 
date and therefore, this recommendation letter is discussing the Petitioner's contributions that occurred 
nearly two years after the original petition was filed. On motion, the Petitioner also submitted an 
outline of his job duties atl land al !communication notice regarding a company initiative. 
As noted in the Director's decision, all these documents provide information about the Petitioner that 
transpired after he filed the Form I-140. 
The Petitioner also submitted two additional recommendation letters for work performed prior to filing 
the Form I-140. The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field 
were original and they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a 
project or to an organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) ( citing Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has 
some meaning. Nielsen v. ?reap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every 
provision in a statute is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that 
causes it to duplicate another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's 
contributions must have already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. 
Contributions of major significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
The first letter is from an individual from I that has known the Petitioner for more than 10 years in a "mentor & mentee relationship." The 
author stated that the Petitioner has helped with developing and articulating materials to use in various 
training programs, and one of his procedures was published by the World Wildlife Fund for the 
distribution purposes for this company. The second letter from 
I I indicated they know the Petitioner for 13 years and worked with him in a "supplier and 
customer relationship." The author stated the Petitioner's "professional and out of the way efforts and 
commitment for development helped us to have innovative solutions for our upcoming machines," 
and his "contribution helped us develop as competitive and efficient equipment manufacturers." 
The Petitioner contends he submitted his information about the contributions he made to current and 
former employers; however, the letters do not contain detailed, specific information explaining how 
the Petitioner's leadership resulted in original contributions ofmajor significance in the field. Instead, 
the letters make vague and general statements and do not provide a true understanding of an original 
contribution ofmajor significance. The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information 
explaining the unusual influence or high impact his leadership has had on the overall field. Letters 
4 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.2 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). For the reasons 
discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A 
motion to reconsider must establish that the prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record 
at the time ofthat decision. See 8 C.F .R. § 103.5( a )(3). In the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner alleged 
no specific error in the April 2023 denial notice. The motion brief did not contend that the Director's 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, nor was it supported by any relevant 
caselaw, statute, or regulation. Since the motion did not meet the requirements identified above, the 
Director properly dismissed the motion to reconsider. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the evidence submitted in the motion to reopen. The Petitioner does 
not establish that the Director should have granted the concurrent, but procedurally separate, motion to 
reconsider. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director's dismissed his combined 
motions in error or otherwise overcome the basis for the prior decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not shown that the Director should have granted the combined 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. Because the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's 
September 2023 decision dismissing those motions, we will not directly address the April 2023 denial 
or the merits of the underlying petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language 
but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 10, 2024 In Re: 31125065 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data center/network engineer in the pharmaceutical industry, requests classification 
under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b)(1)(A). Petitioners in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required for a final merits 
determination . On appeal, the Petitioner contends that, in finding insufficient evidence of his 
commandment of a high salary and original contributions in his field, the Director misapplied law to 
facts. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Petitioner met a third requisite evidentiary requirement by submitting 
evidence of his commandment of a high salary in his field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's 
contrary decision and remand the matter for a final merits determination and entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 1 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
1 After the appeal's filing, the Petitioner submitted additional materials regarding this matter. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) assigned a separate receipt number to the second filing. We will 
consider the second filing in a separate decision. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x).2 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements above, USCIS must make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of 
extraordinary ability); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, an Indian native and citizen, earned a bachelor of technology 
degree in computer science and engineering in his home country. He came to the United States and 
earned a master of science degree in computer science and an executive master of science degree in 
information systems security. He has worked in the United States as a data center/network engineer 
for more than six years, developing expertise in network security in the pharmaceutical industry. 
The Petitioner states that he wants to continue working as a data center/network engineer in the United 
States. Also, he states that, through research, he plans to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) into the 
fields of cybersecurity and the Internet of Things. He served as lead author on a paper proposing to 
use AI in combination with watermarking to enhance and monitor security of medical data passing 
through networks. 
The Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record indicate, his receipt of a major, international award. 
He must therefore demonstrate his satisfaction of at least three of 10 initial evidentiary criteria. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x) 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two initial evidentiary criteria: authorship of scholarly 
articles in his field; and performance in a critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (vii). The Petitioner contends that he also submitted proof 
of his original contributions of major significance and commandment of a high salary in his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (ix). 
2 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
A. Commandment of a High Salary 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted copies of payroll documents showing that, from January 2023 to September 
2023, his annual salary rate rose from $91,140 to $126,880. He also submitted copies of two 2023 
letters offering him jobs as a data center/network engineer with annual salaries of $148,500 and 
$150,904. 
A credible job offer showing prospective wages may establish a petitioner's ability to command a high 
salary in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The record indicates no reason to doubt the 
credibility of the Petitioner's job offers. He has therefore demonstrated an ability to command an 
annual salary of $150,904 in his field. 
Evidence as to whether a petitioner's salary is high relative to others in their field may include 
compensation surveys, including materials from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL). 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1). The Petitioner's evidence included information from the DOL-sponsored 
Occupational Information Network (O*NET), an online database. See O*NET Res. Ctr., "About 
O*NET," www.onetcenter.org/ overview.html. The O*NET information indicates that, as of 2022, 
the top 10% of "network and computer systems administrators" in the Petitioner's metropolitan work 
area annually earned at least $139,230. The information also shows that the top 10% of these workers 
in that state and the United States annually earned at least $136,850 and $140,430, respectively. Thus, 
the O*NET evidence shows that the Petitioner commanded an annual salary within the top l 0% of 
network and computer systems administrators in his metropolitan work area, state, and the United 
States. 
The Director, however, found the evidence insufficient to show the Petitioner's commandment of a 
high salary relative to others in his field. The Director stated: 
The regulation requires the [Petitioner] to offer evidence showing that he has 
commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration relative to others in the 
field, rather than being in the "top 10% of earners," "90th percentile," or average salary 
for his experience. As such, the beneficiary has not shown that his annual salary 
constitute[ s] "a high salary" or "other significantly high remuneration for services" as 
compared to other Data Center and Network Engineers. 
The Director appears to fault the Petitioner for comparing his compensation to that of "network and 
computer systems administrators," rather than more specifically to that of data center/network 
engineers. USCIS guidance states that compensation surveys should be "geographical or position­
appropriate." 6 USCIS Policy Manual 6(F)(2)(B)(l) (emphasis added). The Petitioner's O*NET 
evidence satisfies the guidance. The O*NET information is geographically appropriate, as it 
specifically covers the Petitioner's metropolitan work area. Also, the O*NET information indicates 
that his duties as a data center/network engineer fall within those covered under "network and 
computer systems administrators." Further, the Petitioner submitted articles indicating that network 
and computer systems administrators in high-tech fields earn more than those, like the Petitioner, in 
3 
the pharmaceutical industry and that his metropolitan work area has attracted many high-tech 
businesses. Thus, the O*NET compensation information for network and computer systems 
administrators in his metropolitan work area likely exceeds the compensation of data center/network 
engineers in the pharmaceutical industry in his area. The Petitioner has therefore sufficiently 
demonstrated his commandment of a high salary relative to others in his field. 
B. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfied another 
criterion by submitting evidence of his original 
contributions of major significance in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . But he has already 
earned a final merits determination by meeting a requisite third evidentiary requirement. Thus, we 
need not reach his appellate argument regarding evidence of his purported original contributions to his 
field. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 
516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant was 
otherwise ineligible). 
C. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Director found that the Petitioner met less than three evidentiary criteria, the Director did 
not conduct a final merits determination. Rather than make this determination in 
the first instance, we 
will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits determination. 
To establish eligibility, the [P]etitioner must demonstrate that [he] has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in 
[his] field of expertise, indicating that [he] is one ofthat small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. The [Director] should consider the petition in 
its entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). 
The Director should consider any potentially relative evidence of record, even if it does not fit one of 
the initial evidentiary requirements. Id. The petition's approval or denial depends on the evidence's 
type and quality, rather than on assumptions about the inability to meet different criteria. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Contrary to the Director's decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his commandment of a high 
salary in his field. As he has met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, USCIS must 
conduct a final merits determination on his petition. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 10, 2024 In Re: 31201612 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data center/network engineer in the pharmaceutical industry, requests classification 
under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b)(1)(A). Petitioners in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required for a final merits 
determination . 
This is the Petitioner's second submission regarding this petition. He previously appealed the 
petition's denial. Seel IWe will issue a separate decision on the first appeal. 
This submission raises the same issues as the Petitioner's first appeal. As a matter of prudence, we 
may dismiss appeals and motions that lack practical significance. Matter ofReyes, 26 I&N Dec. 528, 
528 n.3 (BIA 2015). We will therefore dismiss the submission as moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the 
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 25820197 Date: MAY 11, 2023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, met at 
least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal, and four subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider. The matter is now before us 
on a fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence 
regarding his recent activities and his social media presence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or has 
established that our decision to dismiss the prior combined motion was based on an incorrect 
application of law or USCIS policy. We incorporate all our prior decisions by reference and will 
repeat only certain facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's claims on fifth motion. 
While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his 
previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or 
USCIS policy and was incorrect at the time of that decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5)(a)(3). 
The Petitioner states on fifth motion that he is "submitting evidence ofmy achievements as an athlete 
and as acoach; letters from reputable organizations in the field of martial arts; evidence of recognition 
of my unique style and presence on the worldwide web; pictures at the various competitions where I 
participated as an athlete and as a coach." This statement does not identify any incorrect application 
of law or USCIS policy in our September 2022 decision nor does it contain any specific claim that our 
September 2022 decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of that decision. 
The motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and therefore the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires us to dismiss the motion. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions 
for rehearing and motions for anew trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 
U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)); see also Selimi v. Ashcroft, 360 
F.3d 736, 739 (7th Cir. 2004). There is a strong public interest in bringing proceedings to a close as 
promptly as is consistent with giving both parties a fair opportunity to develop and present their respective 
cases. INS v. Abudu, 485 at 107. 
Based on its discretion, USCIS "has some latitude in deciding when to reopen a case" and "should have 
the right to be restrictive." Id. at 108. Granting motions too freely could permit endless delay when 
foreign nationals continuously produce new facts to establish eligibility, which could result in needlessly 
wasting time attending to filing requests. See generally INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. The new facts 
must possess such significance that, "ifproceedings ... were reopened, with all the attendant delays, 
the new evidence offered would likely change the result in the case." Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464, 473 (BIA 1992); see also Maatougui v. Holder, 738 F.3d 1230, 1239-40 (10th Cir. 2013). 
Therefore, a party seeking to reopen aproceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS v. Abudu, 485 at 110. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
The Petitioner's evidence on motion may be summarized as follows: 
2 
• 2022 letter from a martial arts coach describing the Petitioner's activities as a coach and his 
participation in 2021 and 2022 tournaments and competitions; 
• Screenshots of undated social media photos and posts featuring a person we presume to be the 
Petitioner performing various martial arts poses and other social media users commenting on 
them; 
• Unsigned 2022 letter on _________ letterhead, stating how they met the 
Petitioner and follow him on social media; 
• December 2022 letter from a martial arts coach praising the Petitioner and stating that he met the 
Petitioner in 2015; 
• December 2022 letters from two mothers whose children the Petitioner coaches; 
• Photos of children wearing medals or holding certificates and standing near aperson we presume 
to be the Petitioner; 
• Advertisements for upcoming competitions listing the Petitioner as a competitor; 
• Photos of a person we presume to be the Petitioner at 2021 and 2022 martial arts competitions in 
the United States; 
• Information on how to register or attend martial arts competitions; 
• Lists of people who won medals at a 2015 European Universities Karate Championship; 
• Copy of 20211 !competition results, listing the Petitioner as winning third place in one 
category and accompanied by photos; and 
• Copy of 2021 USA Karate Nationals results, listing athletes the Petitioner may have coached and 
accompanied by photos. 
The Petitioner has submitted this same type of evidence in his previous motions and appeal, and we have 
thoroughly addressed the reasons it does not establish eligibility for the requested classification.1 As such, 
this evidence is not new and does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen. In addition, the 
Petitioner's description of the evidence, as quoted above in relation to the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider, does not identify the criteria under which we should consider this evidence. The Petitioner 
has not explained (1) the relevance of this evidence to his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability, or (2) how it establishes eligibility at the time of filing. Accordingly, even if these were new facts 
and evidence, they would not warrant reopening the proceedings. 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening the proceedings. Therefore, the motion to reopen 
must be dismissed. 
1 Some of this evidence appears to relate to the Petitioner as a coach and not as an athlete who performs the sport. The 
Petitioner has not offered sufficient explanation or evidence to demonstrate that his coaching children in martial arts relates 
to his ability as martial arts athlete. Although a competitive athlete and a coach may both share knowledge of the sport, 
we draw a distinction between the skills required for each. See, e.g., Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, 
LLC v. USCIS, 131 F.Supp.3d 721 (S.D. Ohio 2015) (noting that '·competitive athletics and coaching are not the same area 
of expertise" and citing Lee v. I.N.S., 237 F.Supp.2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) in support). As such, the Petitioner's evidence 
that he coaches a martial art does not necessarily support a finding of extraordinary ability for his athletic performance in 
that martial art. In addition, as we have explained in our prior decisions, much of the Petitioner's coaching activities 
occurred after the initial filing of the petition and cannot establish eligibility at the time of filing. Although we have 
considered it, for the foregoing reasons, we do not directly address the Petitioner's coaching evidence or find that it 
establishes eligibility under the requested classification. 
3 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493401 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 12, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research university, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , its campus biological safety 
officer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it 
did not establish that she has achieved the required sustained national or international acclaim and 
placement among the small percentage at the very top of her field. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a 
beneficiary's achievements in the field have been recognized in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiaiy 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as its Campus Biological Safety Officer since May 2018 
and intends to continue to employ her in this position. The Beneficiary earned her doctorate in 
biological sciences ( environmental microbiology) in 2014 and has worked in the biological safety and 
biosecurity field since that time. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the 
Beneficiary met three of these evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others in her field, 
authorship of scholarly articles in journals and conference proceedings, and serving in a leading or 
critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) 
and (viii). The Director concluded that the record did not sufficiently support the Petitioner's claim 
that the Beneficiary also satisfies the criterion related to original contributions of major significance 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As the Director determined that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements, he reviewed 
the totality of the evidence in a final merits determination. He denied the petition after concluding 
that the Petitioner did not establish thatthe Beneficiary has achievedsustainednational or international 
acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his determination that the Beneficiary does 
not meet the original contributions criterion at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), did not give sufficient weight 
to expert opinion letters in the record, and did not appropriately weigh the evidence of the 
Beneficiary's achievements in the final merits analysis. 
2 
After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary satisfied the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii). We will therefore tum to the final merits 
determination below, where we will also consider the Petitioner's claims regarding the Beneficiary's 
original contributions in her field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits detennination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 Here, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this standard. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary completed a bachelor of science and master of science in 
biotechnology atl !university in 2004 and 2006, respectively. She subsequently attended I !University I I, where she completed her master of science in 
plant molecular genetics and biotechnology (2009), and her doctorate degree in biological sciences 
with a concentration in environmental microbiology (2014). In June 2018, shereceivedanrofessional 
certification as a Registered Biosafety Professional from the I I 
International I [ntemational). The Beneficiary's professional experience includes employment 
as a microbiology consultant and laboratory safety scientist at I I (2013-2016), as a 
Biological Safety Officer a~ I University (2016 to 2018), and as the Petitioner's Campus 
Biological Safety Officer since May 2018. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary meets the criteria for judging, 
scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. It has also submitted evidence related to her 
contributions to the biosafety and biosecurity field. At issue is whether the record establishes that she 
is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field and that she has sustained 
national or international acclaim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The record demonstrates that the Beneficiary has participated as a judge of the work of others in her 
field. An evaluation of the significance of her judging experience is appropriate to determine if such 
evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. See 
~an, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's service as a judge for 
l__Jinternational' s annual I !Publication A ward in 2019, but determined that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that her "participation in the widespread peer-review process, a routine 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanua1/HTh1LJPolicyManua1.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
process in the field relying on many scientists, exceeds that of other researchers or reflects sustained 
acclaim." The Director further observed that such acclaim "is more commonly associated with 
selection for service on editorial boards of prestigious journals or serving as general chair of 
professional scientific conferences." The Director concluded that serving as a judge on one occasion 
within one year of the filing of the petition did not reflect that the Beneficiary has "a career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's characterization of the Beneficiary as a "researcher," 
emphasizing that the record does not represent her as such. Therefore, the Petitioner argues that 
"USCIS's opinion as to what constitutes acclaim is misguided and their substitution of their opinion 
as to what constitutes acclaim" in the Beneficiary's field is "an abuse of discretion." With respect to 
the Beneficiary's paiiicipation as a judge forl IInternational'sl !Award, the 
Petitioner maintains that the Director "ignored the magnitude of this honor" and that the Beneficiary's 
service as a judge in this capacity "was on a level of sustained national or international acclaim." 
The evidence reflects that the,__ ______ ~Award is granted by I I International annually 
to the author(s) of an aiiicle published in the association's Applied Biosafety journal which "repmts a 
~cant contribution in scientific investigation and/or health and safety." A screenshot from the 
L__Jwebsite indicates that award nominations are made by a committee formed by two members of 
its awards committee and two members of its publications committee. The Petitioner also provided 
evidence that the Beneficiary, who was co-chair oQ !publications committee, was one of the 
committee members who volunteered to review and score articles as part of the award nominating sub­
committee. The evidence does not establish, however, how the Beneficiary's voluntary paiiicipation 
on the nominating committee for this publication award is "on a level of sustained national or 
international acclaim" or sufficiently corroborate the claimed "magnitude of this honor." 
The record also demonstrates that the Beneficiary rrnrticipated as a mentor in L ~ 
I I annuall • JProgram, which is operated byl,_ __ ____.I and 
sponsored by the U.S. Department of State. 2 The evidence indicates that the program pairs 
experienced biosafety professionals from developed countries with their counterparts in the 
developing nations to enhance networking opportunities, share best practices, and identify 
opportunities for improvement, collaboration, and professional develo ment. The record reflects that 
the Beneficiary mentored! lof the,...._ __ -,,------- ......... ------.--,---' 
I I The Petitioner explains that she "has been serving as a mentor and,-J·=u=d=e--'o;..;:f'-'- ____ _____. work 
in his eff mis lo impTve the overall biosaf ety and biosecurity of the 
laboratories at ' research ~-----~ 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's invitation to serve as a mentor in this prestigious 
international program "does in fact demonstrate sustained acclaim," emphasizing that several of the 
experts who provided letters in support of the petition mention that they "are aware of her role in this 
project." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that "only the most accomplished and reputable 
biosafety professionals are recruited to serve as mentors within the ...._ _________ __. 
2 We note that while the Petitionersubmittedevidencerelated to this program for consideration underthejudgingcriterion 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204 .5 (h )(3)(iv ), the Director did not address this evidence in the final merits determination. 
4 
Pro am." The Petitioner rovided a letter from a seruor .__ ___________ ___. 
member of the technical staff at I !Program.I I who._i_s_a-ls_o_t_h_e_c_h-a1-.r-o-f:~~~~~~,....I-n-te-m-at-io_n_a_l_E_n_g_a_g_em_e_n_t_C_o_m_m_it_te_e_., 
discusses the Beneficiary's work withl I and indicates that he invited her to join the I I 
I !Program based on her "reputation as a highly skilled biosafety and security pBof i n 1 
with a proven track record ofleadership and engagement, especially in her many roles within ' 
He also states that "all biosaf ety professionals selected from the United States for th 
Program have been outstanding members ofl I" and tha~ l"has areputationofcollaboratin 
with the be f h h biosafety and biosecurity personnel." L-----r-- 7 
Director of states that he has served as a mentor in the 
'----------------' Program and can confirm that I l"has a reputation of w._o_r_kin ___ g_. 
and collaborating with the best and brightest" in the field. 
The record, however, does not sufficiently document the criteria or process by which this peer 
mentorship program invites or selects its mentors or indicate whether or to what extent selection is 
based on a prospective mentor's national or international acclaim in the field. The evidence in the 
record supports a determination that participation as a mentor in the ~-----------~ program is regarded in the field as a significant professional achievement, but the record does not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's involvement in the 2019 program sets her apart from her peers to 
the extent that it reflects her placement among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of 
her field. Nor does the evidence establish that she garnered national or international acclaim because 
of her participation. Overall, the Petitioner has documented two instances of the Beneficiary's 
participation as a judge that took place during the year preceding the filing of this petition. It has not 
demonstrated how this recent experience supp01is a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723,59. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, the Director observed that she had 
published "approximately 13 scholarly articles, only two of which had been cited, receiving 15 total 
citations." 3 The Director determined that, while the citations show that the field has noticed her w01k, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the citation rates are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. The Director reached the same 
conclusion with respect to the Beneficiary's publication record, noting that the Petitioner did not 
provide, for example, evidence that would allow a comparison between her publication and citation 
record with those who are recognized for being at the top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's professional field of biological safety and 
security "is not a purely academic, nor a purely scientific filed. It is a professional field that mandates 
the dissemination of original and groundbreaking information through hands-on conferences and 
workshops." The Petitioner emphasizes that most of the Beneficiary's peer-reviewed publications 
3 The record reflects that the Director obtained these figures from the Beneficiaty's Google Scholar citation histoty 
submitted in responseto a request for evidence in September 2020. While there are 13 titles listed, it does not appear that 
evety listed item was published in a peer-reviewed professional publication such as a j oumal or conference proceeding 
For example, three of the entries are for professional development courses for which the Beneficiaty served as a co­
instructor and three are for workshops orwebinars that do not have associated published proceedings. The Beneficiaiy's 
resume lists six publications in peer-reviewed conference proceedings between 2012 and 2018, one peer-reviewed journal 
article published in 2016, and two additionaljournalarticles that were "inpreparation"as of2020. 
5 
"appear in major conference proceedings for all of the conferences in which she has presented her 
extraordinary work in biological safety and biosecurity." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that the 
Beneficiary "is not in a field where citations are common," and submits that "citations are not an 
accurate means of determining whether [ the Beneficiary] has established a sufficient level of interest 
in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim." While the Petitioner de­
emphasizes the importance of publications and citations in the biosafety field, the record reflects that 
there are in fact peer-reviewed journals and conferences in this field and does not sufficiently 
corroborate the Petitioner's claim that citations in this field are generally uncommon. 
Further, the Petitioner has not offered an alternate basis for comparison to demonstrate how the 
Beneficiary's record of scholarly publications and conference presentations sets her apart from other 
biosafety professionals and places her among the small percentage at the top of the field. The record 
reflects that, at the time of filing, she had six publications in peer-reviewed international conference 
proceedings, two of which were published after she completed he~nd started working in the 
biosafety field. 4 Specificall she resented at the 2017 and 20 I 8l__Jrnternational Conferences. 
The record reflects that she professional development course onc=J 
'at the 201 7 International Conference and co-instructed the pre-
conference course '~----------.------.------------------~' on 
three occasion, International Conferences at the 10th International 
Symposium fo,__ ________ ~ in 2018). A letter from I I who served as 
the Beneficiary's co-instructor for the latter course, emphasizes that 'I !pre-conference [courses] 
are peerreviewed by thd bre-conf erence committee,"notingthat "itis an extremely competitive 
process, where only a few courses are selected to be present[ ed] after a thorough peer review." 
While we do not doubt that the Beneficiary's active involvement ici !International conferences 
has garnered her recognition from conference attendees who participated in her workshops and 
sessions, the record does not establish how her publications in conference proceedings over the last 
three years, none of which have been cited by others, have earned her sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field or how her activities in these areas compare to other professionals in 
the field. Further, while the record indicates that there is a competitive peer review process associated 
with participation in these conferences, the evidence does not demonstrate that presentation 
opportunities and workshops are reserved only for those at the top of the biosafetyfield. The selection 
of the Beneficiary's papers and courses in consecutive years is noteworthy and reflective of the high 
quality of her work. We also note that several of the expert opinion letters comment on her talents as 
a public speaker and educator and her ability to effectively communicate with diverse audiences. 
However, the record does not establish how the Beneficiary's scholarly work, whether published or 
presented, has earned her sustained acclaim, or how it sets her apart from others and places her among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ta !ks" ra tlier than as peer-reviewed conference proceeding publications. 
6 
The Director's decision reflects that he acknowledged both the Beneficiary's leading and critical role 
for the Petitioner, and the Petitioner's distinguished reputation. The Director concluded, however, 
that the record did not demonstrate that her employment in this role reflects or has resulted in the 
Beneficiary's widespread acclaim in the field. Further, the Director observed that the record did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary had held a leading or critical role for any other organizations or 
establishments with distinguished reputations. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director 
"ignored the evidence" when determining that the Beneficiary's role for the Petitioner is not 
"representative of sustained national or international acclaim or 'a career of acclaimed work in the 
field."' The Petitioner also argues that ''nothing in the regulations requires the beneficiary to show 
that she was in a leading or critical role with more than one distinguished organization, but in fact, she 
was." 
The Petitioner highlights the evidence in the record which establishes the critical nature of the 
Beneficiary's role for the petitioning university and the Petitioner's own distinguished reputation 
among research universities. This evidenc.l includes letters from several university officials, including 
I 11 I. I andl IThe Petitioner 
extensively quotes from these letters and maintains that "ample evidence has been provided in support 
of [the Beneficiary's] critical role." However, the Beneficiary's critical role for the Petitioner has been 
acknowledged and is not at issue. The letters referenced above discuss the Beneficiazy's 
responsibilities and accomplishments in great detail and confirm that she serves in a highly critical 
role for the petitioning university, that she chairs a working group of biosafety officers within the 
University! I system, and that she has been an invaluable technical and subject matter expert 
in the rural county where the Petitioner is located, coordinating both the university response and 1he 
local public health response to the coronavirus pandemic, paiiicularly while this petition was pending 
However, these letters do not explain how the Beneficiary had already receivedrecognition in the field 
based on her campus biosafety role and her leadership of campus and community pandemic response 
efforts atthe time the petition was filed in March 2020. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1). In its response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner provided evidence that the Beneficial had 1een invited to speak on COVID-19 
biosaf ety related topics, including a webinar sponsored by International and a webinar hosted 
by the I O I in India, in August and September 2020. The 
Petitioner also indicated at the time of the RFE response that the Beneficiary had three new 
manuscripts for publication underway "all of which relate directly to the pressing COVID-19 
pandemic." However, the record does not establish that speaking engagements that occurred after 1he 
filing of the petition or papers that have not yet been published have contributed to her national or 
international acclaim in the field at the time of filing. 
The evidence provided at the time of filing did not demonstrate how the Beneficiary's performance in 
the Campus Bio safety Officer role resulted in her national or international recognition or otherwise 
drew significant attention from the greater field. The Petitioner emphasizes that "it goes without 
saying that due to the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic, the role of biological safety and biosecurity 
officers are being highlighted worldwide," but this general assertion does not speak to the 
Beneficiary's individual acclaim in the field when this petition was filed. 
7 
The Petitioner further argues that the Director failed to consider evidence establishing the 
Beneficia 's leadin role wit International which is described in the record as "the world's 
professional organization." Specifically, the 
.... P_e-t1-. t1-. o_n_e_r_e_m--h-a-si_z_e_s -th-at-th_e_B_e_n_e_f-ic_i_a_ry_w_a_s_a~founding member of I I Intemational's 
1.;-----------,. ____ ____J(which was later given committee status), serves as chair of its 
.==========='--=a::.:n;:.:d::....:::a.1c:.P.r;:,Pea~video series made b~ I International to celebrate I _ _ lin L__J 2019. The Petitioner particularly emphasizes that the 
Beneficiary's nomination to serve in the critical role of chairperson for the I 1 I 
I l "confirms that biosafety professionals around the world view [her] as a leader in this 
field." 5 
The Petitioner submitted a screen shot fro~ !International' s website Oorg/leadership) which 
indicates that the association's leadership includes a president, a council that serves as its governing 
body, several teams (each of which has its own leadership and is made up of several committees), and 
committees, which are each led by a chairperson/co-chair. The website's section on "Teams & 
Committees" states that "the individuals listed on this page are volunteers" in reference to the team 
and committee leaders. The record also includes a letter addressed to the Beneficiary froml I 
International~--------~in which he thanks her for being a chai1j--P-ll--11li;I.__ ___ ___._ I [ and notes that"[ v ]olunteers are the lifeblood of any association andl__Jinternational 
would not existing without the caring, dedicated, knowledgeable and highly professional volunteers 
from around the globe." 
Reference letters from bot~ I andl !International Ex~cutive Direptorl I 
Oaddress the Beneficiary's committee roles within the association.l._ ___ __.!states that "[h]errise 
to significant leadership roles withinl I International is evidence that [the Beneficiary] is truly 
regarded as an international expert in the areas of biosafety and biosecurity." I Jmentions 
that the Beneficiary was nominated for he~ I co-chair and chair roles and that this "speaks 
volumes about the regard her peers hold for her work." However, as noted above, other evidence 
indicates that committee positions, including chair or other leadership positions, are staffed by 
volunteers. Absent additional evidence or explanation regarding the nomination and approval process 
for committee chair positions, it is unclear to what extent serving in such a role for one of many of I !International' s committees is reflective of or results in one's national or international acclaim 
within the organization or within the broader field. 
Overall, the record reflects that the Beneficiary has been a very active member ofl I since joining 
the organization in 2014 and has heldl I positions since 2017. She 
has also raised her profile by having herl I presentations and/or worksho s accepted for 
inclusion in the organization's annual conferences in 201 7, 2018 and 2019. notes that as 
a result of these activities, she is "starting to be seen as a leader within,___ ..... ' but the evidence does 
not demonstrate that her activities within this professional association over the last few years have 
5 The Petitioner emphasizes that publication of the journal Applied Biosafety is one of the most important goals ofn 
International as a professional associati~that this makes the Petitioner's role on the...,I ------~-~ 
particularly critical. The screenshot fromL__Jinternational's leadership page indicates that there is a Journal Board 
responsible forpublication of Avvlied Bioscience, led byl I editors. The stated 
purpose ofth~ lis "to promote andfosterthel fbiosafotymedia." 
8 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim in her field or placed her among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
We have also considered evidence related to the Beneficiary's original contributions in her fielµhlcll, 
includes the above-referenced statements from the Petitioner's representatives and L___J 
International leadership, as well as other professional acquaintances and colleagues. The Petitioner 
identified the Beneficiary's contributions as (1) the development of "the first biosafety annual audit 
program inl I' and (2) the "selection of her original work for presentation at 
conferences, workshops, symposia and webinars in the field." 
In his letter,I lofl I provides details regardin the Beneficia 's 
mentorship relationship with I lof I las a participant in the..,._ __ --.-____ ,,... I Wrogram, noting that "with the expert guidance of [the Beneficiary ],,___ _ ____,is developing 
an annual lab audit program, which when piloted successfully at I lwould also be shared with 
oth~research labs. "I ~ also mentions in his letter that the Beneficiary's project plan 
foil__J was expected to serve as a model for other laboratories throughoutc=Jand would "be 
highly beneficial to the region as a whole in terms of responding to modem global pandemics." In 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitio1er prorded more information about the 
project, explainingthatl lwas jointly established by the government and theb I 
of the National Institutes of Health as s first ~---------------~ Biosafety Level 3 laboratory." The Petitioner stated that the facility had never conducted an annual 
biosafety audit program prior to [the Beneficiary;s] inrrvention" and that no such annual biosafety 
audit had been conducted nor existed anywhere in up to that point." 
The Petitioner later submitted a letter fro ml I y,ho states that " [ the Beneficiary's] I I 
could not have come at a more critical time forl "~' at the time his letter was written was 
analyzing 90% of the samples for COVID-19 samples inl__j He emphasized thatl kvould not 
have the capacity to test and analyze such a large volume of samples if the Beneficiary had not 
provided her re latory and practical guidance in implementing the biosafety program at the 
laboratory . .._--~~~~-~~~~~.........,utions tol~--~f'stands to serve as a model for other 
laboratories in " This evidence establishes that the Beneficiazy's 
participation in the .-----;_ ________ __, program resulted in an important contribution to 
laboratory safety at ~-~that became particularly significant in l,igh,Lof the COVID-19 pandemic 
and is expected to influence laboratory safety practices throughoutl_Jin the future. However, the 
record does not establish how the implementation of the annual audit program afl I had resulted 
in the Beneficiary's individual acclaim or recognition outside the program itself when the petition was 
filed. 
The Petitioner has maintained that the Beneficiary's "highest contributions come in the form of widely 
broadcast, high impact (and often times international) presentations of her unparalleled knowledge 
and expertise in biological safety and biosecurity." The Petitioner particularly highlighted the 
selection criteria for the I I Annual Conference, noting that the selection of presentations and 
workshops is based on factors that include the relevance of the topic, scientific merit, the targeted 
audience, and, if applicable past evaluations of the speaker or course instructor. The record reflects 
that since 2017 the Beueficianrbad been au inviter: presenter at twol I conferences and at two I Symposia in Mexico and has co-instructed pre-
conference workshops at both conferences. She also gave a webinar presentation for a live stream 
9 
event sponsored b~ land fas invited to give a talk at 
the 4t~ !Workshop sponsored by th~.___ ____ __.joffice andl I 
University. The submitted recommendation letters discuss these activities, but do not establish how 
her individual presentations and workshops are deemed by the field to be contributions of major 
significance or how they, individually or collectively, reflect her sustained national or international 
acclaim or are otherwise indicative of a high level of recognition in her field. The record therefore is 
insufficient to support a finding that the Beneficiary's contributions have been recognized by the field 
in a manner consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the record contains recommendation letters from the Beneficiary's colleagues and 
professional acquaintances that discuss her professional achievements and express the authors' 
opinions regarding her standing in their shared field. For instance,! I states that the 
Beneficiary "is truly a rising star in biological safety and biosecurity," who, in "in a very short period 
of time ... has established herself as an expert in these fields" and "has a bright future ahead of her as 
an internationally recognized expert." Further! lstates that the Beneficiary's "knowledge 
in the realm of biological safety, risk, security and management are undoubted! extraordin· and 
place her among a small group of experts o eratin at the ve to of the field." 
a supervisory microbiologist with the.__ __________________ __. Biorisk 
Management Unit, states that the Beneficiary is "a professional who possesses extraordinary 
knowledge and skill of the biosafety and biosecurity field" who has been "on a path to becoming a 
notable biosafety professional" since joining the profession in 2014.1 I states that "it 
is my professional opinion that [the Beneficiary] is an internationally recognized expert in this field 
and she is rapidly emerging as one of the leading scientists and educator in the field of Bio safety and 
Biosecurity in the United States." 
Here, while the letters (including those reviewed and not discussed here) praise the Beneficiary's 
expertise in her field, they do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that she is already viewed by her overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record establishes that the Beneficiary is a successfuL 
committed professional who performs important work in the biosafety and biological security field. 
The evidence provides support forl Is assertion that the Beneficiary is "a rising star" who 
has gained notice in the field for her achievements over the past several years and is likely poised for 
national or international recognition in the future. 
However, the record as a whole does not establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for the benefit sought 
Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification 
as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for 
the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, wi1h 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20480162 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 12, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist who has displayed her work internationally. She also commercially 
markets her designs and illustrations on paper and stationery products. The Petitioner intends to 
continue working as a visual artist in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) , and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to leading or 
critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) . The 
Petitioner has not pursued her initial claim that she meets the criterion relating to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), nor does she contest the Director's 
decision relating to this criterion on appeal. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not 
address this criterion in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). 
We will address the Petitioner's claims with respect to the individual evidentiary criteria below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities . The Petitioner's 
2 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner claims that she performed in a leading and critical role for 
The Petitioner submitted letters from I Director, who explained thatl I I is a company registered in both Venezuela and the United States that produces __ 
products, such as _______ She further states that the Petitioner is co-director of the 
company, as well as the company's lead and sole artist, and that the Petitioner's original designs and 
illustrations are used on the company's! I The Petitioner also submitted a copy of 
the company's registration documents and bylaws, which indicate that the Petitioner is the majority 
partner/shareholder of the company. This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
plays a leading or critical role for I 
However, the Petitioner has not established that I has a distinguished reputation. I I states in her letter that the company has acquired numerous contracts with companies such 
as I 11 andl I who have purchased the Petitioner's 
artistic designs or commissioned unique works. She concludes that the acquisition of ongoing 
contracts with such prestigious clients "is a marker of a company with a highly esteemed and 
distinguished reputation in the industry." However, these statements are not supported by 
independent, documentary evidence. Although the record includes testimonial letters from these 
clients praising the Petitioner's artwork and artistic vision, and confirming their acquisition of her 
work, these letters do not speak to the company's reputation beyond the personal opinions of some of 
its clients. Further, although the record contains media articles complementing the Petitioner's 
achievements as a visual artist and acknowled in that her work is commercially marketed I 
these articles comment upon the 
Petitioner's reputation, but not on the company's reputation. The evidence is therefore insufficient to 
establish thatl I has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she is I I and that the company is just a legal medium 
through which she operates. She states that "if it is established that I equals [the Petitioner], 
one and other are interchangeable, then I have submitted enough documentation of interviews, press 
releases, followers on social network, published books, that it does have the necessary recognition by 
itself" In order to fulfill this criterion, however, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she "performed 
in a leading or critical role/or organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 
( emphasis added). The Petitioner, as an individual artist, is not an "organization or establishment" as 
contemplated by the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Here, the 
Petitioner has not submitted independent evidence sufficient to establish thatl I has a 
distinguished reputation, as required. While the Petitioner documented her personal career 
achievements and her reputation in the industry, the record is insufficient to demonstrate thatl I 
is recognized as having a reputation marked by eminence, distinction or excellence as required by this 
criterion. 
3 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not provided evidence establishing her eligibility 
for this criterion. 1 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994) ( considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner submitted numerous urchase orders and invoices from 2014, which demonstrate the 
purchase of ___________________ by I The 
Petitioner also submitted a 2019 printout from www.payscale.com which documents the average 
annual salary for a visual artist. In denying the petition, the Director determined that the purchase 
orders and invoices were insufficient to establish the Petitioner's earnings and to show that her income 
was significantly high in relation to others in the field as required by this criterion. Specifically, the 
Director noted that the purchase orders and invoices did not reflect compensation to the Petitioner , 
and therefore were not sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's salary or renumeration for services. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's finding. The Petitioner's name is not depicted on the 
purchase orders or invoices to establish that she is the intended recipient. Rather, the invoices are 
billed by I without specifying that the Petitioner was the supplier of the services represented 
or the intended recipient of the amounts due. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the invoices and 
purchase orders are sufficient evidence of her earnings as all of her operations are done through 
and she receives the majority of the profits rather than a traditiona l salary. 
While her assertions are noted, the Petitioner has not supplemented the record with evidence of the 
actual salary or other remuneration that she has commanded for her services. The record is not 
supported by verifiable business or personal tax documentation, and none of the evidence the 
Petitioner offered confirms the amount of compensation provided to her by I in any given 
year. Moreover, based on her assertion that she received the "majority" of the company's profits, the 
amounts listed on the purchase orders and invoices do not necessarily match the amounts that the 
Petitioner actually received, and therefore do not serve as a basis for comparison to the remuneration 
of other visual artists absent additional evidence pertaining to her actual amount of compensation. 
The record is insufficient to allow us to determine the amount of the Petitioner's actual income or 
remuneration, and therefore it cannot establish her eligibility under this criterion. Without a proper 
basis for comparison and evidence showing her comprehensive earnings during a sustained period 
1 We acknowledge the Petitioner's initial claims that she also performed in a leading or critical role forl I clients, 
including U l andl I as well as for an international art fair. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not pursue these claims regarding her role with these organizations. Consequently, we deem 
these claims to be waived and will not address them in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
4 
predating the filing of the petition, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USC IS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'l v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 
2021); Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajfd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a skilled visual artist and that she has gained recognition for her unique 
designs and illustrations. But she has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of 
sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover , the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16226128 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 13, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a medical researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(i)-( x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonsti·ates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a medical researcher who indicates that he is currently employed as a Chief Research 
Fellow a...__ ____________________ -,--_ ___. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner previously served as Head of the Department of Medical History at~------~ 
Medical University from 2010 until 2017. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Here, the Petitioner initially claimed to meet six of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
Subsequently, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), informing the Petitioner, in part, that 
he satisfied one of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Specifically, the Director stated: "The evidence demonstrates that the beneficiary 
has published scholarly material in a professional journal. As such the submitted evidence meets this 
criterion." In addition, the Director notified the Petitioner that he may submit additional evidence to 
fulfill the other five claimed criteria. 
2 
In the Director's decision denying the petition, he determined that the Petitioner met the criterion 
relating to leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation, at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5 (h )(3 )(viii). Further, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criteria relating 
to published materials, judging, original contributions, and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), 
(v) and (vii). Although he indicated in the RFE that the Petitioner satisfied the scholarly articles 
criterion, the Director's decision does not mention this criterion and reaches no final determination as 
to whether it was satisfied. 
Further, the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the 
petition with respect to two of the other criteria, and does not adequately address the evidence the 
Petitioner submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE). An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a fair oppmiunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3 ( a )(1 )(i); 
see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
As noted, the Director already determined that that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion related to his 
performance in leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We will remand the matter, in 
paii, so that the Director can issue a new decision that includes a dete1mination with respect to the 
scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which, as noted, was mentioned in the RFE but 
absent from the final decision. 
In addition, although the decision contains a brief analysis for four additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director's evaluation of the judging and original contributions criteria includes 
few or no references to the specific evidence considered and does not adequately inform the Petitioner 
why his evidence was deemed insufficient to satisfy his burden of proof with respect to these criteria. 
With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Director listed some of the 
evidence submitted, stated the regulatory requirements, and concluded, without providing any analysis 
or discussion of the listed evidence, that the Petitioner did not meet satisfy the criterion. Similarly, the 
Director's discussion of the evidence submitted in support of the original contributions criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) is limited to a briefreference to one supporting letter and a patent, and does not 
take into account all of the claims and evidence the Petitioner submitted in support of this criterion. As 
the matter will be remanded to the Director, he is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in 
support of these two criteria, including the Petitioner's accompanying letters explaining how the 
evidence supports his eligibility. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitionerrequested that evidence he submitted to satisfy the display 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) be considered as comparable evidence pursuant to 8 C.F.R 
§ 2 04. S(h )(4 ). The Director acknowledged the evidence provided but did address the Petitioner's request 
3 
that such evidence should be accepted under the comparable evidence regulation. As the matter will be 
remanded to the Director, he should address this request in the new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria. If after review the Director determines that 
the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of 
the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entty of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicators Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16156434 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 13, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of the denial. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we also dismissed. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both the motion to reopen and 
the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which in this case was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous combinedmotion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner 
has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous 
combined motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal after determining that she did establish that she meets any of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 In the previous motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence that she had authored a book published in September 2019, almost two 
years after the petition's December 2017 filing date. The Petitioner maintained that this new evidence 
demonstrated that she satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which relates to authorship 
of scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In 
dismissing the motion to reopen, we determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that her 
publication of the e-book satisfied any of this criterion's requirements. Specifically, it was not shown 
to be a scholarly article in the acting field, nor did the self-published e-book qualify as a professional 
1 On appeal, thePetitionermaintained that she met four criteria at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relatingto lessernationally 
or internationally recognized a wards or prizes, published material in major media, original contributions of major 
significance in the field, and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v) and (viii). 
2 
or major trade publication or other major media. Further, because the book was published in 2019, it 
could not establish that the Petitioner met the eligibility requirements for this criterion at the time of 
filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, we determined that she did not show proper 
cause to warrant reopening. 
With respect to the prior motion to reconsider, we observed that, apart from the Petitioner's new claim 
that she could satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the brief submitted in supp01i of the 
motion was essentially identical to the Petitioner's previous appellate brief. Although the Petitioner 
contended that we erred in our dismissal of the appeal, she did not attempt to identify or rebut any 
specific errors in our decision or establish how we had misapplied the law or USCIS policy in 
adjudicating her appeal. For this reason, we also dismissed the motion to reconsider. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner submits new evidence intended to demonstrate that she 
seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability, as required by 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). However, the Petitioner's intention to 
work as an actress in the United States is not at issue in this proceeding, as it was not a basis for either 
the denial of the petition or our dismissal of her appeal or previous motion. As discussed, the petition 
was denied and the appeal dismissed because the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner does not claim that the newly submitted evidence, most of which dates from 2020, 
relates to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Further, even if it did, the Petitioner 
must establish that she met at least three of those criteria as of the date of filing in 20 I 7, as required 
by 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). The new evidence establishes that the Petitioner has her own Y ouTube 
channel on which she posts content such as commercials, makeup and beauty tutorials, and interviews 
with other performing artists. She provides background information regarding some of the individuals 
who collaborated with her on these videos. She also provides evidence that she appeared as a guest 
on the ...___,~---~------.-.1 podcast irl I 2020, as well as screenshots from Instagram as 
evidence of her attendance at several events in 2020. 
The Petitioner's newly submitted evidence, which does not relate to the grounds for denial or pre-date 
the filing of the petition, does not establish proper grounds for reopening. We will therefore dismiss 
the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's brief in support of the motion to reconsider, apart from a section addressing the new 
evidence discussed above, is almost identical to the briefs that she previously submitted on appeal and 
in support of the first motion. The Petitioner includes a general statement that we erred in dismissing 
the previous motion but she does not specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she 
attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in that decision. 
3 
A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were decided in error or 
overlooked in our prior decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). 2 ("[A] 
motion to reconsider is not a process by which a patiy may submit, in essence, the same brief presented 
on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior. . . decision. The moving 
party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error or overlooked 
in our initial decision .... ") 
Here, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed our most recent decision or stated any reasons for 
reconsideration of that decision. Nor does she contend that our prior decision was based on an 
incorrect application of law or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of 
record at the time of that decision. Therefore, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion 
to reconsider and must be dismissed. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
Accordingly, the combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 0-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the BoardofT mmigration Appeals, governed by 8 C.F.R. § I 003.2(b )(I), 
which states: "A motion to reconsidershallstatethe reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of factor law in the 
prior Bo a rd decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority." These requirements a re fundamentally sim ilarto those 
foundat8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). and therefore the same logic applies. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 13, 2024 In Re: 30728339 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mountain climber, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that his entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a scout and experienced mountain climber. He intends to continue his scouting 
activities in the United States, and also intends to serve as an instructor and promoter of the sport of 
mountain climbing. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to published materials at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that 
he also meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to lesser awards (i), 
memberships (ii), and original contributions of major significance (v). 
Although we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the published materials criterion, 
we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the judging criterion, which we discuss below. 
We further conclude, upon de novo review, that the Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements by meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's} participation, either individually or on a panel, as a 
judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed above, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
2 
an allied field of specialization. For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
Preliminarily, we note that the Petitioner does not specifically claim that he has judged the work of 
others. In a request for evidence (RFE) that identified evidentiary deficiencies regarding other criteria, 
the Director concluded, without analysis or explanation, that the judging criterion had been met. 
The record contains published materials about the Petitioner's accomplishments, as well as evidence 
of awards he has received and his memberships in various associations. The record also contains 
recommendation and testimonial letters that praise the Petitioner's accomplishments in the field of 
mountain climbing and confirm his voluntary participation in various instructor roles for organizations 
in the field. 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. Here, the evidence submitted in support of the petition does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner was invited to judge the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization, and actually completed judging activities, as contemplated by the plain language ofthis 
criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner does not specifically claim eligibility for this criterion, and the 
Director did not articulate what evidence was relied upon in making a favorable determination under 
this criterion. The record as constituted does not establish that the Petitioner participated as a judge 
of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision 
of the Director for this criterion. 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 'sJ membership in associations in the fieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the Boy Scouts of 
America, the Nepal Mountaineering Association (NMA), and the Nepal National Mountain Guide 
Association (NNMGA). U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines if the 
association for which the person claims membership requires that members have outstanding 
achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The petitioner must show that membership 
in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted documentation demonstrating he is a Merit Badge Counselor with the Boy 
Scouts of America, as well as a document entitled "Instructions for Merit Badge Counselors" 
indicating that merit badge counselors are expected to be teachers and mentors to scouts. The 
Petitioner also asserts that this membership has "specific requirements, which include being approved 
by a special committee and requires skills and education in climbing." The Petitioner also submitted 
a "Mountain Guide Certificate" issued through the NNMGA and the NMA, as well as information on 
how to become an NNMGA guide. 
3 
The Petitioner, however, did not submit evidence ofthe membership requirements for these associations. 
We will not presume exclusive membership requirements from the general reputation of a given 
association, as the association's reputation may derive from its size, the number of symposiums it hosts 
or other factors independent of the exclusive nature of its membership. As the record does not contain 
the bylaws or other official documentation of the membership criteria for these associations, we cannot 
evaluate whether the Petitioner's memberships are qualifying. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under this criterion based on his honorary membership in the Leo 
Club of Anarmani, the youth organization of the Lions Club of Nepal. The Petitioner submitted 
documentation regarding the membership requirements and membership tiers of the Lions Club; 
however, we note that such documentation expressly states that honorary members, unlike regular 
members, are not actual members of the Lions Club. Moreover, regular membership requires payment 
of an entrance fee and is open to any person desiring to be a member who pays the prescribed fee. 
Therefore, outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, are not 
requirements for membership with the Lions Club. 
For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his membership as a climbing instructor with I land his life membership with US Nepal Climbers Association, 
Inc. satisfies this criterion. While a letter from I Istates that membership requires certain 
achievements, such as technical proficiency in climbing as well as evidence of recent climbs, the letter 
does not provide sufficient information regarding its membership criteria, nor does it demonstrate that 
such requirements are comparable to the regulatory requirement of outstanding achievements. The 
Petitioner also failed to provide evidence that admittance to this organization as a climbing instructor is 
determined by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. 
Similarly, a letter from the president and general secretary of US Nepal Climbers Association, Inc. 
indicates that life membership in the organization is awarded to candidates who have ascended Mount 
Everest and have at least seven years of mountain guide experience, among other criteria. While we 
acknowledge that the Petitioner was granted life membership in this association based on his personal 
accomplishments in the field of mountain climbing, he did not provide any evidence of the membership 
requirements of this association, and whether membership is judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields pursuant to the plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record does not contain sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate the membership eligibility 
requirements for the claimed organizations, how members are selected, and that the Petitioner's 
membership in these organizations was based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field of mountain climbing. Therefore, this criterion 
has not been met. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). For example, a petitioner may show that the 
4 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
While the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's documentation in support of eligibility under this 
criterion, including testimonial letters and supplemental evidence consisting of certificates of 
completion and awards/acknowledgements of various personal achievements, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner had not provided evidence demonstrating that he had made original contributions 
of major significance relevant to mountain climbing. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that his 
"involvement in scouting communities and other associations inspires the youth in mountaineering 
and can greatly benefit the United States." He points to his accomplishments in the field as represented 
by various awards and recognition he received, as well as various letters of support from others in the 
industry as evidence of the impact of his contributions. He submits new evidence in support of this 
assertion, including additional documentation pertaining to awards received as well as additional 
letters in support of this criterion, such as a letter of appreciation from I I 
The letters submitted in support of this criterion praise the Petitioner for his talents and experience. 1 
For example, a letter from I I marketing director of verifies the 
Petitioner's service as keynote speaker for the organization's 
fundraiser. A letter from the secretariat/rover leader ofl lpraises the Petitioner's commitment to 
safety and technical proficiency in the field, whereas an additional letter from a rover leader ofl I 
similarly expresses gratitude for the Petitioner's exceptional service. Although the letters praise the 
Petitioner for his skills, they do not explain what specific contributions the Petitioner has made, or 
how they are "of major significance in the field." The letters primarily contain attestations of the 
Petitioner's status in the field without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 
1115. The letters also describe specific events and accomplishments from the Petitioner's experience, 
but do not establish that the Petitioner's personal accomplishments and experiences have risen to a 
level of constituting original contributions of major significance to the overall field. See Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in her field as a whole). 
The testimonial evidence in the record, as well as his awards and published materials about him, 
demonstrate that the Petitioner received recognition for his accomplishments in mountain climbing. 
However, this evidence does not contain specific, detailed information explaining how his 
contributions have been both original and of major significance in the field. While we recognize the 
personal accomplishments he has achieved in ascending Mt. Everest and other peaks, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his contributions rise to a level of major significance in the overall field. 
Having a diverse skill set is not a contribution ofmajor significance in-and-of itself. Rather, the record 
must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those unique skills to impact the 
field at a significant level. 
1 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance to the field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the three evidentiary criteria discussed above. As 
such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion ofthe one remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) cannot change 
the outcome of the appeal. 
Moreover, since the identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to 
reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's arguments regarding how his entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. Therefore, we reserve and will not address 
this remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); 
see also MatterofD-L-S, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide the 
type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has 
submitted documentation of his achievements but has not demonstrated that these achievements have 
translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Furthermore, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to 
the very top ofthe field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16877892 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 14, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a violinist who has performed with several ensembles and orchestras. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record contains evidence that the Petitioner 
displayed her work performing at various artistic and musical venues and therefore we agree with the 
Director that she meets the display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional criteria. 1 After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the original contributions 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal 
and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
recipients as well as an limitations on competitors. 3 The record contains a letter from the .... I _ ___, 
, a I I from the 
,.1=1 ===========--K,r-io-1-in_C_o_m_p_e_t_it-io_n_,_a_.nd an I I award certificate from the 
Latvian .... I ----=c------'r 
First, the letter froml !"declares that the Petitioner has ermission to travel with the following 
instrument: A violin, made by'---------------~---' and explains that the 
foundation "owns a large collection of musical instruments that are given to musicians on a long-term 
loan basis." The letter frornl ~s accompanied by a screenshot from the website www.tarisio.com 
providing the price history for several violins made by.__ ___ ___,.___,., and a screenshot from the 
I !website indicating the application process to receive a loaned instrument. However, the 
documentation submitted does not established that the petitioner's receipt of the aforementioned 
loaned instrument is a "nationally or internationally recognized prize or award" as required by the 
plain language of~ulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). In response to the Director's request for 
evidence from thel__Jof the Petitioner's receipt of an award certificate or prize, the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence that she received an award or prize from the I I Regardless, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the criteria used in providing the Petitioner a loaned violin, which thd I 
website indicates is based onl !residence, regular concert performances, and professional 
endorsements or competition results and audio/video recording, demonstrate the national or 
international significance of that claimed recognition. 
Further, regarding the I I award certificate! the Petitioner previously submitted the 
Petitioner's award letter from the I bf the Latvian. I that states that the award is 
presented annually "to support a Latvian artist and his or her work and presentations" and is 
accompanied by $1,000 in prize money. The Petitioner farther submitted an article from the print 
publication Neatkarigas T.',1.DJ.UJ.LJ.L.4-'inas that states that 'The Latvian I I 
awarded [the Petitioner a Award in 2014 at the Proclamation Day event at thd !Church 
venue" and that the 'L__Jr-1-----L..1.LUJ.trd isl I Latvian culture award which is awarded to talented 
musicians who perform in.___~-" This sin~le article does not support the Petitioner's claim that the 
award she received from The Latvian I ~ I is a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in her field. 
In addition the Petitioner rovided letters from the Latvian.__ ______ ~ and judges of the 
2012 iolin Competition in Lithuania, explaining why she received 
their awards. For instance.__ ____ _. of the Latvian I lstated t.,.,... ....................... ner was 
selected "because of her multiple performances outside of Latvia and and her 
reco~nized talent and skill in the area of Baltic music."L..._ _____ ,----,__ _ _____p a judge of the 
2012.__~--------~lviolin Competition and lecturer a.__ _ ___,University College of 
Fine Arts, explains that the competition is "part of an International Summer Masterclass program." 
She stated that the competition "involved 20 participants who had to prepare 'Summer' by Antonio 
Vivaldi," and that the Petitioner was "a winner because of her impressive stage presence, nuanced tone 
quality, clear technique and articulation."4 While I I indicated that the 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors fi-om a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
4 Although we discuss a sample letter from the judges of the 201_,_ _________ _.Violin Competition, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
masterclass attracted participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of 
competitors, without more, does not establish the requisite recognition. The record lacks evidence 
sufficient to verify that the awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herself received any 
recognition from outside the issuing organization. As discussed previously, in order to meet this 
criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field. 5 
Here, the letters do not show that her awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field, nor does the record include other evidence demonstrating such recognition. Without 
evidence of the entrance requirements and restrictions, information on the number of competitors in 
the Petitioner's category, or evidence of the level ofrecognition associated with the awards, we cannot 
find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 6 On appeal, the Petitioner claims that an article and interview published on www.lsm.lv 
satisfy this criterion. 7 The record, however, does not reflect that she provided published material about 
her in professional or major trade publications or other major media, which included the title, date, 
and author. 
The Petitioner rovided a screenshot of an article dated02016, titled, .__ _________ ___, 
published on the website www.lsm.lv that announces a concert on that date 
r----,_M_u_s-eu_Jm inl I Latvia by a duo clmpryed of the Petitioner and flutistD 
'----~ The article relates that the concert celebrates the anniversary of the I ts restoration 
and will include Latvian chamber music and works from the classical repertoire. It provides 
background information for the Petitioner] I and I I Here, this screenshot is 
about the concert rather than about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). We also 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
7 The Petitioner previously claimed that she also meets this criterion based on articles published in the print publications 
Neatkarigas Tukuma Zinas, LAIKS, Draugas, Latvija Amerika, and Latvijas Avize, and on the websites www.delfi.lv, 
www.grani.lv, www.classical-scene.com. www.muzikaspasuale.lv, www.telegram.com, www.daugavpilszinas.lv, 
www.bostonirish.com. www.ntz.lv. www.muzeji.lv, www.kultura.daugavpils.lv, and www.schmopera.com. On appeal, 
the Petitioner claims eligibility based on the two published materials mentioned above and does not address these other 
published materials. 
4 
note the screenshot does not include the "author of the material," as required by the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot of a video datedl 12017, from D posted on the 
website www.lsm.lv. The Petitioner claims that the video reflected an interview of her broadcasted 
on the Latvian! I Although the Petitioner provided a transcription of the video, it 
ublished material about her relating to her work. Rather, the video is about the 
new~LLU,~....J.U..lo.!..ii...u.u.LLL __ ~~~-----,-J performed by the Petitioner, pianist! l 
and.__ ________ __, coverrg comjositions by Latvian composers and works from~ 
classical repertoire and premiering on 2017, a~ I the Petitioner andLJ I lare quoted discussing the composition of the program. Again, articles that are not about a 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR­
RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about 
the actor). 
In addition, the record does not establish that www.lsm.lv or c=J' qualify as major trade media or 
other major media. The Petitioner provided a screenshot of an article from the website of Lsm.lv that 
provides that it "is the portal of Latvian Television and Latvian radio I I' and that 
.__ ______ __,~ "[a]n audio and video content player for Latvian Radio and Television, which 
allows passive consumption of social media content." A screenshot of a press release from the website 
www.latvijasradio.lsm.lv indicates that Latvian Radj·a is the "market leader a~,mg Latvian 
broadcasters ... according to the latest winter-spring._ ____________ _.J survey data." 
USCIS need not rely solely on self-serving assertions. 8 Even if we were to accept the information 
contained in the press release, it does not does not include the comparative circulation data necessary to 
establish that it qualifies as major media in Latvia. Further, although the record contains an article from 
the website www.iauto.lv that indicates that Ism.Iv was among the top 10 most visited news portals in 
Latvia among "the websites that participated in the..._ _____ __,study in September 2017 ," with 
381,946 monthly visitors,"9 the Petitioner did not show the significance of that one-month visitor 
statistic and how such data reflects status as a major medium.10 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classtfication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. The record supports this finding. 
8 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding 
that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving asseitions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). 
9 Although the translated heading of the relevant chart indicates that this figure relates to daily visitors the translated body 
of the article states the figures relate to monthly visitors. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
The record includes a letter from I I choir conductor and music director at the Latvian I and co-founder with the Petitioner of the 1----,_l _w_h_i_c_h_s_h_e_d_e_s_c-ri_b...,es as monthly concerts at that church featur .... in_g_"_d-is-ti_n_g_m __ s-h-ed_s_o-lo-is-t-s, .... 
chamber music groups and bands," for which the Petitioner is also the artistic director. She asserts 
that the Petitioner's responsibilities as artistic director o~ I include "judging performers' talent in 
order to select them for specific performances," and claims that the Petitioner "critiques ... the actual 
performers who she selects to perform each piece." She further provides "[the Petitioner] is 
responsible for auditioning, selecting, inviting, and corresponding with all performers. She has 
ultimate discretion over which artists are selected to perform in the concert series." 
The record also includes screen shots of thel linquiry form on Google that indicates it provides 
"a short intake form" for interested individuals and ensembles to submit, which "will help I I 
curators learn about you and best place you within our concert series." The intake form requests such 
information as ensemble~ musical geme, social media links, performance bio, and preferred 
month of the 2018-2019 L__J The form indicates that "[i]f there is information requested below 
that you don't have, leave the section blank," and instructs that the completed form should be emailed 
to the Petitioner. 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence demonstrating 
that the petitioner has participated as "a judge of the work of others." The judging activities should be 
clearly described and well-documented in the record, and the evidence should demonstrate whose 
work and what type of work the individual judged. In this case, the Petitioner has not done so. Here, 
the evidence does not demonstrate sufficiently that in the performance of her role as artistic director the 
Petitioner actually judged the musical work of the artists in making final selections for the concert series, 
rather than, for example, reviewing qualifications as set forth in the intake sheet, or other rneral 
requests for inf°~tjon, For rample, in response to an e-mail request datedl 2019, 
from musician _ for "information about your selection process for performers for you 
concert series," the Petitioner responded onl I 2019 that "[ w ]e have a spot in March if 
you are available . . . . " Here, the record does not document sufficiently the Petitioner 's judging 
activities forl I 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785 (E.D. La.), ajj'd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. Further, we 
find that, although the Petitioner met the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), she did not 
establish that she meets the criteria relating to nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
published materials, or judging. We acknowledge that the Petitioner claims eligibility under one 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles with distinguished organizations or 
establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, as the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this remaining 
criterion. 11 In addition, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). However, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 15, 2024 In Re: 30727567 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, and he did not demonstrate his 
intent to continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. Subsequently, the Director 
dismissed the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four ofthese criteria, but the Director determined the Petitioner 
fulfilled only two: published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 1 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets an additional two 
relating to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has shown he fulfills at least three 
categories of evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly 
articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." USCIS first 
determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field. As defined in the academic 
arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It 
is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by other experts in the field 
of specialization. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations ofthe concepts expressed in the article. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. For other fields, a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in that field. Learned persons include all persons having 
1 Although not claimed by the Petitioner. the Director determined the Petitioner provided evidence but did not establish 
eligibility for the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
profound knowledge of a field. Id. Here, the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence demonstrating 
his authorship of articles containing characteristics of scholarly material. 
Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major media publication. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other media in the field (for major 
media). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Here, the Petitioner's 
documentation reflects issuance in professional publications. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner demonstrated his qualification for the scholarly articles criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Therefore, the Petitioner has overcome this basis for denial of the petition 
through fulfillment of three regulatory criteria. Nevertheless, granting the third initial criterion does not 
suffice to establish eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The Director 
must undertake a final merits determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596F.3dat 1119-20.2 
B. Continue to Work in the Area of Expertise 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) ofthe Act requires the individual "to enter the United States to continue work 
in the area of extraordinary ability." In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires that 
"the petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to 
continue work in the area of expertise" and "[s]uch evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States."3 
In this case, the Petitioner provided sufficiently detailed plans explaining his intentions to continue 
work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has overcome this basis for the Director's denial. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the stated reasons for denial, we remand this proceeding so that 
the Director can render a final merits determination. 
2 Because the Petitioner has fulfilled three criteria, we need not decide whether he meets the original contributions criterion, 
and the entire record will be evaluated in the context of the final merits determination. See also generally 6 USCTS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (indicating that in the second step of the analysis, the petitioner must demonstrate that the 
person has sustained national or international acclaim and that their achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 See also generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2) 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20299027 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 16,2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist who has competed in kickboxing and Muay Thai, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision in December 2019, and three 
subsequent motions: a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, dismissed in August 2020; a 
motion to reconsider, dismissed in April 2021; and a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, 
dismissed in September 2021. The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 XA) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements (through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria), we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons forreconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based 
on an incorrect application of law or policy. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the ten lesser initial evidentiary criteria, pertaining 
to participation as a judge, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In dismissing the appeal, we 
withdrew the Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and concluded that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the claimed criteria. We dismissed the first motion, concluding that 
the Petitioner requested us to reconsider our decision without showing how we erroneously applied 
law or policy. Further, while he provided additional documentation, we determined that the Petitioner 
did not establish that the new evidence demonstrated his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
We dismissed the second motion because the Petitioner had simply repeated prior claims and 
arguments, without identifying any errors oflaw or policy in our first motion decision. We dismissed 
2 
the third motion because the Petitioner "did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior 
motion," and he did not establish the relevance of a newly submitted letter. 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner submits no new evidence, and he states no new facts. Instead, he 
repeats previous assertions that do not overcome earlier conclusions. The bulk of the Petitioner's latest 
statement repeats, largely word-for-word, the Petitioner's assertions in prior submissions, including 
earlier briefs and his response to a request for evidence from 2018.1 Repetition of prior claims does 
not introduce new facts into the record, and does not show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
Similarly, a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior appellate 
decision. The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues that were previously decided in 
error or overlooked in our prior decision, or must show how a change in law materially affects our 
prior decision. See Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). In earlier decisions, we have 
already advised the Petitioner that repetition of previous claims in this mannerwillnotestablish proper 
cause for reopening or reconsideration. The proper subject of the Petitioner's latest, fourth motion is 
our September 2021 decision dismissing his third motion. The Petitioner does not identify any specific 
errors in our September 2021 decision. Rather, he continues to generally assert eligibility on grounds 
already considered in our earlier decisions. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our prior 
decision was based on an incmrect application of law or policy, and the evidence provided in suppmt of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 At times, the latest statement indicates that a particular document "is attached," butthis is apparentlyanearlierreference 
to an attachment to an earlier motion, which the Petitioner appears to have copied with the sunounding language. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20509233 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a children's book author, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because we determined on appeal that the Petitioner did meet three of the 
evidentiary criteria, we remanded the petition for the Director to conduct a final merits determination. 
The Director denied the petition and the matter is again before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021)(determiningthat 
EB-I visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 5 96 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players inKoreanhistmy" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record must demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of his field. See section203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In our prior decision, we explained that the record established that the Petitioner met the three criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv), and, as a result, we remanded the matter to the Director to 
perform a final merits determination. However, in addition to providing contradictory statements 
regarding whether the Petitioner had met three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x), the Director did not properly conduct such a determination. 
While we may agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's participation as a judge for a 
children's story writing competition in 2007 is not indicative of either sustained national or 
2 
international acclaim or being among the small percentage at the very top of his field, the Director 
must still examine and weigh the evidence related to the remaining criteria in the final merits 
discussion. Because the Director did not consider this evidence in the analysis, the decision did not 
sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he is an individual of extraordinary 
ability under section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director did not provide a 
complete analysis of the submitted evidence and full explanation of the reasons for denial in the final 
merits detennination, we will withdraw the decision and remand the matter for fmiher review and 
entry of a new decision. 
ORDER: The Decision of the Director is withdrawn, and the matter is remanded for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 16, 2024 In Re: 31108967 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a public relations (PR) specialist whose experience includes organizing promotional 
campaigns and events for company brands and artists in the entertainment industry. She intends to 
continue her work promoting artists and causes in the arts and entertainment industry in the United 
States. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner previously had a O-lA petition approved, 
the classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 
at least one O-IA nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, this prior approval does 
not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition that does not meet evidentiary 
requirements. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Brothers Co. Ltd., 724 Supp. 
At 1103. Some nonimmigrant petitions are simply approved in error. See Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. 
INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d at 29-30; see also Texas A&M Univ. v. Upchurch, 99 Fed. Appx. 556, 2004 WL 
1240482 (5th Cir. 2004) (finding that prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying an 
extension of the original visa based on a reassessment of the individual's qualifications). 
We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See, e.g., Matter of Church of 
Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593,597 (Comm. 1988). Agencies need not treat acknowledged errors 
as binding precedent. See Sussex Engg. Ltd. v. Montgome,y, 825 F .2d 1084, 1090 ( 6th Cir. 1987), 
cert. denied, 485 U.S. I 008 (1988). Furthermore, our authority over the service centers is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of the individual, we would not be bound to follow the 
contradictory decision of a service center. See Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001) (per curiam). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii), (viii), or (ix). On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the 
Director's conclusions with regard to the criteria at (v), (vii), (viii), and (ix); we therefore consider the 
2 
issues of these criteria to be abandoned. 1 The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she meets the criteria 
at (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv). As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met 
at least three of the required criteria. 
Documentation ofthe individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially submitted documentation of awards received by her previous employer, a 
public relations agency. The Director determined the Petitioner did not meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion because she did not establish that she was the individual recipient of the 
awards. The Director further explained that the evidence demonstrated that it was the employer who 
received the awards, not the Petitioner, noting that the plain language ofthe regulation requires awards 
be conferred to the individual. The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that 
the awards were recognized nationally or internationally. Although the record initially referenced 
awards from several entities granted to the agency and inferred a connection between the awards and 
the Petitioner's work, on appeal, the Petitioner only discusses awards received from the Bulgarian 
Association of PR Agencies, or BAPRA. While the Petitioner acknowledges the USCIS Policy 
Manual's guidance2 that the regulation requires prizes or awards to be received by an individual, rather 
than an employer, the Petitioner reasserts her contention that she was the "actual recipient" of the 
awards because a letter from her previous employer characterizes her as the "de facto recipient." The 
Petitioner points to a letter from the agency's director of administrative, legal, and financial affairs 
discussing the BAPRA Bright Awards received by the agency stating the following: 
The BAPRA Bright Awards are the only internationally recognized PR awards in 
Bulgaria and award excellence in PR. However, they are not given to individuals even 
though it is the individual PR specialist who leads a certain campaign who is the real 
wmner .... 
I would therefore like to expressly confirm that the BAPRA Bright A wards won ... 
were awarded to our company only due to [the Petitioner's] work. Her results and 
leadership are the reason why [the company] won these PR awards and numerous other 
recognitions and are a direct result of the projects she managed, including the most 
prestigious _______ a category based on the overall success of the 
projects of the company for the previous year. 
While we acknowledge the agency's assertions regarding the Petitioner's positive role while employed 
by the company, her former employer is not the awarding organization. On appeal, the Petitioner cites 
a letter she initially submitted from BAPRA describing its award issuance process. The letter specifies 
the following (quoted as written): 
1 An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See. e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing 
Matter ofR-A-M-, I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2(B)( 1 ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
BAPRA doesn't accept individual submissions from Publicists who are not employed 
by a PR firm or an internal PR department. BAPRA only accepts entries from 
registered firms in the field of PR, Marketing, Advertising and in-house PR teams 
within corporations, based in Bulgaria. 
The letter from BAPRA does not specify whether the association assesses the impact of any 
individual's role in an agency's receipt of a particular award. However, the statement above does 
appear to indicate that it would accept an individual submission for an award from a publicist 
employed by a PR firm, but here, there is little indication from the submitted evidence that the 
discussed awards from BAPRA were individually awarded to the Petitioner. Involvement in an award­
winning campaign does not necessarily reflect the awarding entity's intention to award an individual 
participant. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence or statements from BAPRA to confirm that her 
contributions to her previous employer's campaigns weighed significantly on the selection of the 
award recipients, such that the awards constituted recognition ofher individual excellence in her field. 
With regard to whether the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, the Petitioner 
emphasizes evidence previously submitted from BAPRA discussing the judging process for 
administering awards and public information about the awards. The Petitioner asserts that this 
"affirm[s] their national and international reputation." The Petitioner submitted several brief articles 
from websites listing BAPRA award winners. The record contains little objective evidence to 
demonstrate that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner must support 
her assertions with relevant, probative, and credible evidence. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 T&N Dec. 
at 376. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the requirements for this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion because she 
did not submit objective evidence to demonstrate that she was a member of organizations requiring 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in her field. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the provided evidence establishes her qualification under this 
criterion-specifically her membership in the Bulgarian Public Relations Association (BPRA). A 
letter from the BPRA confirms the Petitioner's membership, adding, "All our members are established 
professionals with [a] proven record of successful projects and impactful careers." The letter provides 
the following membership criteria: 
• Experience: A minimum of 5 years of relevant work in public relations or related 
fields demonstrating a track record of outstanding achievements in PR-working 
on diverse campaigns, projects, or clients to showcase versatility. 
• Demonstrated success in planning and executing effective PR campaigns that 
achieved measurable and impressive results in the Public Relations Sector in 
Bulgaria. 
4 
• A portfolio of communications projects, showcasing creativity, strategic thinking, 
and influence. 
• Current occupation-the current employment of the potential member must be in 
the field of PR, Marketing, or a related field. If the occupation changes to a 
different field unrelated to PR, the member must inform the Board and the Board 
saves the right to end the membership. 
• Recommendation letter by a member of the Bulgarian Public Relations 
Association. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director "overlook[ ed] the substantive details provided" in 
this letter concerning "the high standards and achievements required for membership." However, the 
letter does not articulate what BPRA considers to be "outstanding" or how such achievements are 
assessed. A copy of the BPRA's bylaws provides additional information concerning membership, 
including requirements related to a code of ethics and a membership fee; the bylaws do not, however, 
describe what achievements are recognized or how they are evaluated to be "outstanding." While the 
letter lists the board members present when the Petitioner was granted membership and the record 
includes additional documentation demonstrating that they are nationally recognized experts in their 
fields, neither the letter nor the bylaws sufficiently establish the requirements for outstanding 
achievements, as opposed to merely requiring a record of success in an applicant's field. 
The Petitioner further discussed additional evidence of memberships she claimed qualify her under 
this criterion, including an email and a welcome letter from the Music Business Association (also 
referred to as Music Biz) which reference her membership application and payment. Another provided 
email from Music Biz states, "Members are reviewed by our Board of Directors and are officially 
approved at quarterly meetings. Criteria is that your [sic] involved in the business of music in some 
way." The Petitioner also submitted documentation from the Public Relations and Communications 
Association (PRCA), describing itself as "the world's largest professional PR body" and stating that 
membership requires an application and an annual fee. In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter 
from the International Music Managers Forum (IMMF) stating the following (quoted as written): 
This is to confirm that [the Petitioner] in her capacity of an Artist Relations Manager 
and CEO of Music PR and Artist Management company! Iis the founder 
of which is a member of the global umbrella 
organisation -International Music managers Forum (IMMF). 
However, the submitted letters and evidence related to the Petitioner's membership in additional 
organizations does not demonstrate that these entities require outstanding achievements by prospective 
members as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field. The Petitioner has 
not established that any of the organizations of which she was or is currently a member require 
outstanding achievements in one's field for membership. As such, the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's vork in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
5 
The Petitioner initially submitted letters from radio stations attesting to having interviewed the 
Petitioner on several occasions during segments related to the music industry and lifestyle events. She 
also submitted an online news article in which she was interviewed about a music industry scandal 
linked to Bulgaria. The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) requesting transcripts of the 
radio interviews and evidence identifying the author of the internet article. In response the RFE, the 
Petitioner stated that the radio shows were not recorded and emphasized the details provided in the 
letters of support that recalled the interviews and the topics discussed. The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion because she did not submit transcripts of 
asserted radio interviews she was involved in, nor did she demonstrate that an article in which she was 
interviewed was from a major publication. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that USCIS "erred" in its 
determination and "did not properly consider the totality ofthe evidence submitted pertaining to major 
media and/or professional/trade publications." The Petitioner, however, does not specify how the 
Director erred or what factors in the decision were erroneous. 3 
The Petitioner emphasizes that her radio interviews and the news article, titled _______ 
was related to her work in her field and that '-----------------------' this was more than sufficient to satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner, however, did not identify the 
author of the online news article, as required by the plain language of the criterion. She provided web 
traffic data for the article's website but did not indicate or document how that data established the 
website as a major media publication. Further, the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence 
demonstrating that the radio interviews took place or establishing their content. The Petitioner 
submitted articles from major media publications that covered events and projects she was involved 
in planning; however, as the Director noted in the decision, these articles were not specifically about 
the Petitioner or her work, but concerned topics related to these events, such as the causes they 
promoted or the celebrities that they featured. As such, the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof 
to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted correspondence and supporting documentation from several entities for 
whom she judged the work of candidates in artistic fields. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet this criterion because the work she judged was not created by "other public relations 
specialists or others in an allied field." On appeal, the Petitioner contends that these individuals and 
their work fall within the definition of allied fields. She provides the following: 
Her judging responsibilities . . . required her to evaluate communication strategies, 
marketability, and public relations potential for projects. These aspects are integral 
to the field of public relations and demonstrate her expertise and influence in 
areas directly related to her primary field of work. The letter from the Secretary 
General of the French Institute in the US substantiates this by highlighting that while 
3 An appeal must specifically identify any enoneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
6 
[the Petitioner] did not judge PR specialists directly, her role involved critical 
assessment of elements that are fundamental to public relations. This aligns with 
the broader interpretation of "allied fields," where her skills and knowledge in public 
relations are directly applicable and influential in the judging process. 
Moreover, the letter ... explicitly states that her judging role was in an allied field 
of PR, as it involved evaluation communication strategies, marketability, and the 
public relations potential of projects. [Emphasis in the original.] 
The record includes documentation that provides information about the artistic forums in which the 
Petitioner was invited as a judge. The Petitioner also submitted letters from individuals overseeing 
these events detailing the reasons the Petitioner was chosen as a judge. The record further includes 
documentation showing the specialties of other judges chosen to participate and reflecting these 
specialties and the nature of the competitions centering on art, music, and entertainment. The 
Petitioner also provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that she specializes in public relations in 
the arts and entertainment industry. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has engaged in successful 
campaigns for some high-profile clients, but it does not show that this success has translated into 
individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international 
acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17024019 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an art director who was employed by .__ _________ ~in 0-1 
nonimmigrant status at the time the petition was filed. The record reflects that he previously owned 
and operated his own companyll I which provided graphic design 
and related services to clients in .__ ___ _. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets three of these ten criteria, relating 
to display of his work in artistic exhibitions or showcases, leading or critical roles for organizations 
that have a distinguished reputation, and commercial success in the arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), (viii) and (x). 
The Director's decision briefly addresses some elements of the regulatory criteria related to display 
and leading or critical roles, but does not specifically discuss the evidence submitted in support of 
these criteria or why such evidence was insufficient to satisfy the requirements stated at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). For example, with respect to the leading or critical roles criterion, the 
analysis is limited to the following: 
The plain language requires the organization or establishments to have a distinguished 
reputation. Webster's online dictionary defines distinguished as 1: marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence and 2: befitting an eminent person .... The 
evidence only provides general information and does not contain information about any 
awards, recognition or achievements garnered by the organization or establishment or 
otherwise demonstrate that the organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. 
It is unclear to which "organization or establishment" the decision refers because the decision does 
not mention the evidence the Petitioner provided, which included letters and supporting documentation 
2 
from more than half a dozen organizations. The Director also does not address whether the Petitioner 
established that any of his roles were leading or critical, and if not, why the submitted reference letters 
from prior clients and employers were insufficient to meet his burden of proof. The Director's 
discussion of the display criterion is similarly lacking a discussion of the Petitioner's evidence and his 
explanations as to how his evidence demonstrates eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). Further, although the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) prior to issuing 
the denial, the decision does not mention the evidence the Petitioner provided with his RFE response. 
Finally, neither the decision nor the RFE acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he could satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which relates to commercial success in the performing arts, and 
therefore does not include any acknowledgement or analysis of this third claimed evidentiary criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to explain why the evidence submitted in 
support of the petition was either disregarded or deemed to be deficient. For the reasons noted above, 
we agree with this contention. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in 
order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity 
for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. The Director is instructed to review 
the Petitioner's supp01iing letters and evidence submitted under all claimed initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On remand, the Director may also request any additional evidence 
deemed warranted and should allow the Petitioner to submit such evidence in support of his petition 
within a reasonable period of time. 
If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision 
should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entiy of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16025413 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cybersecurity firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director dismissed both 
motions. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary worked as an applications engineer forl I in India before earning a master's degree 
atl I university. The Petitioner hired him in 2014, first as a chief software architect and, since 
2018, as a chief scientist. 
The Director initially denied the petition in March 2020. The Petitioner filed its combined motion in May 
2020, and the Director dismissed both motions in August 2020. The matter on appeal before us is the 
August 2020 motion dismissal, not the March 2020 denial of the underlying petition. In the August 2020 
decision, the Director did not affirm the prior denial. Rather, the Director concluded that the motion did 
not meet the applicable requirements. Therefore, the question before us on appeal is whether the Director 
erred in dismissing the motion. Although the March 2020 denial notice is not before us, we will refer to 
portions of that decision for context. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary satisfied six of ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
2 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to meet the criteria numbered 
(iv), (v), and (vi), but not the other three claimed criteria. In a final merits determination, the Director 
cited four grounds, discussed below, for concluding that the Petitioner had not established that the 
Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner addressed each of 
these grounds in the motion to reopen. 
1. Membership in Associations 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) calls for documentation of a beneficiary's membership in 
associations in the field, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner initially asserted 
that the Beneficiary meets this requirement as a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The Director discussed this membership under the individual criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), but also asserted that, given the regulation's wording, the regulations were also 
relevant at the final merits determination. The Director concluded that the membership requirements do 
not reflect sustained national or international acclaim. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserted: "Senior membership is regarded as a significant achievement because 
less than 2% of the overall IEEE members are elevated to the senior member status globally each year." 
The record shows that senior member status in the IEEE requires "at least ten years" "in professional 
practice," with "significant performance over ... at least five of those years." As the Director noted, there 
is a higher level of membership, "Fellow." IEEE members can apply for senior member status, but fellow 
status is "conferred by the Board of Directors upon a person with an outstanding record of 
accomplishments" that "have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, 
science and technology." The Director concluded that fellow status is more indicative of acclaim than 
senior membership in the IEEE. 
Also on motion, the Petitioner submitted new evidence of the Beneficiary's membership in Sigma Xi, 
described as a "Scientific Research Honor Society." The membership certificate indicates that the 
Beneficiary "was duly elected ... in the year 2020." Sigma Xi's bylaws require "noteworthy achievement 
as an original investigator in a field of pure or applied science," but do not specify the nature of such 
achievement beyond stating that the evidence can take the form of "publications, patents, written reports 
or a thesis or dissertation." 
In dismissing the motion, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary's 
membership in either IEEE or Sigma Xi meets the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that "[l]ess than 2% of the overall IEEE members are 
elevated to the senior member status globally each year," and that a panel reviews applications for senior 
membership, but this information does not establish that IEEE senior membership meets the requirements 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), or -more relevant to a final merits determination -that senior member 
status either results from, or results in, sustained national or international acclaim. The "2%" figure does 
3 
not establish that those promoted to senior member status are in the top 2% of the field; requirements 
such as ten years of experience restrict eligibility in ways unrelated to achievement or recognition. 
The Petitioner also repeats the assertion that Sigma Xi "induct[ ed the Beneficiary] as a full member 
2020." Because this induction took place after the petition's December 2019 filing date, this new 
evidence cannot establish eligibility as of the petition's filing date as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, the Petitioner does not establish that Sigma Xi's requirement of"noteworthy achievement" equates 
to the "outstanding achievements" demanded by the regulation. 
The Petitioner states that the IEEE "is the world's largest technical professional society" and "Sigma Xi 
is the world's largest scientific honor society," but the large size of these associations implicitly argues 
against restrictive membership requirements. 
The Director concluded that the Beneficiary's memberships in Sigma Xi and the IEEE do not establish 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field. For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner has not overcome this conclusion on appeal. 
2. Reviewing and Judging 
In the March 2020 denial decision, the Director acknowledged that the Beneficiary's "participation in 
Technical Program Committees, Panels and Presentations" technically satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), pertaining to judging the work of others, but the Director concluded that this activity 
was "very limited," and that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary had received invitations to 
judge "on the basis of his extraordinary ability." 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted invitations to review manuscripts submitted for publication in various 
journals. In dismissing the motion, the Director noted that these invitations took place after the petition's 
December 2019 filing date. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Beneficiary was "invited to participate in research panels at 
international conferences and workshops." The Petitioner lists four such panels that occurred between 
201 7 and 2019. In the context of the final merits determination, the key question is whether the 
conference organizers invited the Beneficiary to participate in the panels owing to his acclaim in the field, 
rather than because he cleared a substantially lower threshold such as subject matter expertise. The 
Petitioner cites no evidence on appeal that answers this question. 
The Petitioner has not overcome, or directly addressed, the Director's conclusions from the August 2020 
decision dismissing the motion. 
3. Scholarly Articles 
In the March 2020 denial notice, the Director concluded that the Beneficiary's scholarly writings meet 
the technical requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but that the Petitioner did not establish that those 
articles had contributed to sustained acclaim. The Director stated that the Beneficiary's published work 
took the form of a small number of minimally cited conference proceedings and patents, rather than 
articles "in reputed national or international scientific journals." 
4 
On motion, the Petitioner showed that some of the Beneficiary's articles appeared in journals prior to the 
filing date. The Petitioner also submitted patent filings from 2020. The Petitioner stated that "the 
beneficiary's patents have been cited 39 times as of May 2020," but did not establish that this citation rate 
demonstrates sustained acclaim or otherwise indicates a commensurate degree of influence in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserted that the Beneficiary "has been ... publishing detailed technical reports" from 
his work "with some of the world's largest communication companies." We note that the cover pages of 
these reports in the record are marked "CONFIDENTIAL -RESTRICTED ACCESS," with the 
instruction that they "shall not be disclosed outside of' the clients that commissioned the reports. Because 
publication entails dissemination, confidential reports do not qualify as published scholarly articles. 
In the August 2020 decision dismissing the motion, the Director noted that some of the motion evidence 
relates to a period after the filing of the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "did not consider the Journal publications and wrongly 
[asserted that] no articles were published in the international journals." The Petitioner discusses two 
journal articles and a patent published prior to the filing date. 
The Petitioner is correct that the Director's August 2020 decision did not address the Petitioner's pre­
filing publications. Nevertheless, it remains that, in the March 2020 decision, the Director acknowledged 
that"[ t ]he beneficiary did meet this criterion" for the purposes of the initial evidentiary requirements. For 
the final merits determination, the issue is not whether the Beneficiary's articles exist, but whether the 
industry's response to those articles amounts to sustained acclaim placing him at the top of the field. The 
Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary has produced published work, and unpublished confidential 
reports for clients, but the existence of such material does not establish acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner 
does not establish that its motion to reopen established that acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not overcome this issue on appeal. 
4. Leading or critical roles 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) calls for evidence that the individual has performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. In the March 
2020 denial, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established the distinguished reputations 
of the organizations for which the Beneficiary had performed in such roles. Apart from not satisfying the 
requirements of the criterion, the Director stated: 'This is also a contributing factor to conclude that the 
beneficiary did not meet the final merits determination." 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted letters from various clients, and stated that these client letters 
establish the Petitioner's distinguished reputation. In dismissing the motion, the Director acknowledged 
these letters but did not state any conclusions regarding them. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director did not give due consideration to the letters. Therefore, we will discuss them below. 
In separate letters, officials atl t I ] and I I each stated that the Petitioner "is 
an industry recognized cybersecurity research and analysis organization." Officials atl ., I ::i.nd 
5 
I I each stated that the Petitioner "is an industry recognized cybersecurity research and analysis 
firm." An official o-A I ,-tated that the Petitioner "is a distinrished cybersecurity research and 
analysis company with industry recognition," while an official of 1 • I 
I I stated that the Petitioner "is a recognized cybersecurity and cyber risk services organization." 
Other clients described the services that the Petitioner performed for them but did not directly address the 
company's reputation. 
Vague, general references to the Petitioner's reputation do not suffice to establish a distinguished 
reputation. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy a petitioner's 
burden of proof FedinBros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 
41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
We emphasize that, in the initial March 2020 denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria; the denial resulted from the final merits determination. 
The argument that the Petitioner satisfied a fourth initial criterion would not establish acclaim in the final 
merits determination. 
In the context of the Beneficiary's acclaim, it is significant that the letters submitted on motion focused 
on the services that the Petitioner provided. Some letters did not mention the Beneficiary at all; others 
did so only to identify him as a member or leader of the team providing those services. The following 
examples illustrate the point: 
• I I "Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] security team has been working 
with our security and architecture teams to identify and mitigate platform security issues." • I l"Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] team has been working closely with our 
security and architecture teams to secure our platform services." • I I "Led by [the Beneficiary], the [Petitioner's] team has worked closely with our product 
engineering team in certifying data security and compliance ofl lcloud-based information 
services." 
These letters amount to testimonials from satisfied clients; they do not show that the Beneficiary has 
earned sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Director reached erroneous conclusions 
with respect to the motion to reopen. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In its motion to reconsider, the Petitioner stated: "When considering all the newly submitted evidence 
along with what was previously submitted, we believe that [the Beneficiary] ... has a degree of expertise 
significantly above that ordinarily encountered in the sciences." A motion to reconsider must establish 
that the prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. See 
6 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, "newly submitted evidence" cannot support a motion to reconsider, 
and is properly considered, instead, in the context of a motion to reopen ( already addressed above). 
In the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner alleged no specific error in the March 2020 denial notice except 
to note that the Director referred to I I University" instead of I I University." The 
Petitioner acknowledged: "we believe that [the Director] just made a typographical error," rather than a 
substantive error that affected the outcome of the decision. 
Apart from the misspelling of I , I' the Petitioner contended more generally that the Director did 
not "explain the specific reasons" for the denial. The Director, however, devoted two full pages of the 
March 2020 decision to the final merits determination (not counting the space devoted to the initial 
evidentiary criteria). The Petitioner tailored its motion to reopen to several of the points the Director 
raised in that discussion ( and which we discussed above). The record does not support the Petitioner's 
claim on motion that the March 2020 decision lacked "specific reasons" for the denial. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the evidence submitted in the motion to reopen. The Petitioner does 
not establish that the Director should have granted the concurrent, but procedurally separate, motion to 
reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not shown that the Director should have granted its motions to 
reopen and reconsider. Because the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's August 2020 decision 
dismissing those motions, we will not directly address the March 2020 denial or the merits of the 
underlying petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 25753547 Date: MAY 17, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a manager in the field ofautomatic transmission remanufacturing, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence ofmeeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he did not establish, as required, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and commercial successes). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCIS officers should first "[a]ssess whether 
evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to 
that type of evidence"). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the 
final merits determination, USCIS officers should evaluate all the evidence together when considering 
the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he was required satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles in the field, and performed in a leading or 
critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record, and that this evidence establishes that he qualifies under the high standards of this 
immigrant visa classification. On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director did not follow USCIS 
policy and did not consider the totality of the evidence in the record when conducting his final merits 
analysis. We agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider 
the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the 
petition. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to four of the 
criteria, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did 
not address the evidence relating to the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance and 
2 
whether that evidence shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor. The record also includes multiple 
letters of support from professionals in the Petitioner's field that address the Petitioner's standing in 
the field that were not discussed by the Director. Because the Director did not properly consider all 
of the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did not sufficiently address why 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested classification. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS 
officers should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if a petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level 
of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at 
least three criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The 
new decision should include a final merits analysis ofthe totality ofthe record, including the evidence 
submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
addition, the new decision should consider the Petitioner's specific statements explaining how his 
work will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 17, 2024 In Re: 31124996 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
established the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record did not establish that she possesses sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the very few at the top ofher field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director did not consider the totality of the record in making their decision. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability as a "performing artist." 
She has been working as an actor and producer, primarily in film and theater productions but also in 
television, for more than fifteen years. In the recent years she has been working in the motion picture 
industry as a nonimmigrant, primarily in the I I California area, while occasionally 
participating in performing arts projects abroad. In response to the Director's request for evidence she 
clarified her intention to continue to work in this field, noting for instance that she will "[p]erform for 
film, stage, and television productions. Make creative decisions about film, stage, and television 
productions. Write original or adapted material for performances." 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the Beneficiary of an approved 
O-lB petition. Although USCIS has approved at least one O-lB nonimmigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner, this prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 B category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her in qualifying media, her 
participation as a judge of the work of others, the display of her work in artistic exhibitions or 
2 
showcases, and her performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also satisfies an additional 
evidentiary criterion, relating to her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
agree with the Director that she has met the requisite three criteria, but also that the record does not 
establish that she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes copies of several articles published in Italian media which discuss or mention the 
Petitioner and her work in varying degrees. For purposes of this criterion, while published material 
need not be primarily or only about a petitioner to qualify, it cannot be solely about their employer or 
another organization with which they are associated. 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Here, the Director acknowledged that one publication, II Resto 
Del Carlino, qualifies as major media, and that the record contains articles published by this newspaper 
which discussed the Petitioner and her work in the field. We therefore agree that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To support her claim to meeting this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters and articles confirming 
that she participated as a judge of the work of others in the field at Movievalley Bazzacinema Short 
Film Festivals over a period of several years and at the Burbank International Film Festival in 2022. 
She also provided information about these festivals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion based upon the evidence of her work as a judge at these festivals. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her work as an actor and as a film producer in films that were 
exhibited at film festivals. We note that the Director analyzed the evidence under this criterion by 
differentiating between the film work that the Petitioner performed as an actor and as a producer. The 
Director concluded that the display of her work as an actor at film festivals qualified her for the 
criterion, but the display of her work as a film producer at these events did not. The Director did not 
explain their reasons for making this distinction. Based on our de novo review, we conclude the 
Petitioner presented evidence sufficient to show that her work both as an actor and as a film producer 
has been exhibited at film festivals over the years, and thus meets the plain language requirements for 
1 The Petitioner does not assert nor does the record establish that she satisfies any of the other criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
3 
I this criterion. We agree with the Director's ultimate determination that the Petitioner satisfied this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In determining whether an individual has met the plain language of this criterion, we first determine 
whether they have performed in a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a 
division or department of an organization or establishment. In general, a leading role may be 
evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an individual is responsible for the 
success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
Second, we determine whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for 
which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. Merriam­
Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence 
or befitting an eminent person. See Merriam-Webster Dictionary's definition of "distinguished." To 
establish that the entity enjoys a distinguished reputation, a petitioner may offer (for example) 
prestigious awards, media coverage, or published rankings to demonstrate that an organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner stated that she qualifies for this criterion based on her work with a production company, 
(F-), which she started and still operates with her colleague, I l(Mr. S-). 
The Petitioner initially presented pages from F-'s website which indicate that the company is "[a] film 
production company born in 2016 with the goal of developing new and audacious projects ... We are 
currently producing our own projects, but we would be thrilled to discuss your scripts or proposals: 
we look forward to getting to know your ideas." The Petition initially stated that F-"is a distinguished 
organization that has produced multiple award-winning films. The multitude of awards received by 
F-evidences the production company's excellence in the industry as a distinguished organization." 
She asserted, among other things, that she performed in leading and critical roles as an actor and a 
producer in films created under F-' s auspices. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) asking for additional evidence that would establish 
that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for F-, and that F-enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. In response, she provided a letter from Mr. S-in which he explains how her performance 
as co-founder, actor, producer, and writer for F-has been critical to the organization's success. The 
Petitioner provided another letter from director of F-' s film 
stating that the Petitioner's production activities were critical to the film's success. 
Based on this evidence, the Director determined that the Petitioner had performed in leading and 
critical roles for F-and satisfied this criterion. While we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
has shown she performed in leading and critical roles for F-, we conclude that the Director erred by 
not addressing whether F-has a distinguished reputation in denying the petition. Therefore, we 
withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner has met the plain language of this criterion. 
While we acknowledge that F-has been involved in the production of a few films that have garnered 
awards at film festivals, the Petitioner did not substantiate her assertions regarding F-' s reputation with 
4 
sufficient supporting documentary evidence, as requested by the Director. Therefore, she does not 
satisfy this criterion through her work with F-. 
The Director also determined that although the Petitioner presented information about her involvement 
with two other film companies (K-and E-), she did not submit evidence sufficient to show that the 
two films are organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The Director also 
observed that the Petitioner had not provided evidence, such as testimony from K-or E-, to establish 
she had performed in leading or critical roles for those organizations, even though the Director had 
requested such evidence. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the evidence in the record falls 
short in establishing that her work on films associated with K-and E-meets the plain language of this 
criterion. This criterion has not been met. 
As noted above, on appeal the Petitioner asserts that she also meets an additional criterion. However, 
because we have determined that she has met the requisite three criteria to meet the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification, we will not consider her claims to this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As noted above, once an individual has established that they meet the initial evidence requirement, we 
conduct a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine whether an individual has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of their field of endeavor, and that their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. As extraordinary 
ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a judgement call, it 
cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. The final merits 
determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as 
demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 
(2022). 
On appeal, the Petitioner relies on the evidence presented to the Director, which they considered in 
denying the petition. She asserts that they incorrectly conducted the final merits determination by 
failing to properly review and weigh the entire record of evidence submitted in support of the petition 
as part of that analysis. Based on our de novo review, the Director's denial encompassed sufficient 
explanations about the deficiencies in the Petitioner's evidence. Contrary to the Petitioner's assertions 
on appeal, we conclude the record does not reflect that the Director gave the Petitioner's evidence 
insufficient weight in collectively analyzing it in totality within their final merits determination. 
In the denial, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's evidence included letters of 
recommendation, media articles, and printed material about the theatrical performances, films, 
production companies, and festivals which she has worked or been associated with. They concluded 
that the totality of the evidence fell short of demonstrating that she meets the requirements for 
classification as an alien with extraordinary ability in the performing arts. We agree. 
5 
We reviewed and collectively considered the entire record, including the media articles provided about 
the Petitioner and her work. 2 We determine that the Petitioner has not met her burden through this 
evidence to show that she has received critical acclaim or commercial success at the national or 
international level as a erformin artist. For exam le, in a 2010 news a er article, entitled 
the author states that at the age of22 the Petitioner "participated in [a] prestigious film festival 
as a protagonist, presenting [her] movie that also moved her very deeply." The article goes on to 
discuss her experiences working with a film director who had recently passed away. The article does 
not discuss the significance of the Petitioner's acting performance but rather seems to focus on the 
juxtaposition of the Petitioner's status as a young, inexperienced actor with the end of the career of a 
renowned director who had passed away. 
Another article published in 2011, focused entirely on another individual, I I and 
discussed Ms.I I directorial debut in a film in which the Petitioner had an acting role. We don't 
see how this article constitutes evidence about the Petitioner. Another article, published in 2012, is 
sub-captioned -
Notably, this article focuses on the Petitioner's life as a "young actress" amongst stellar actors and 
directors in California, not the significance of her acting performances. A 201 7 article about one of 
the festivals where the Petitioner performed as a judge, notes that she and Mr. S-were provided 
"technical services to the festival while also being part of the jury," but does not touch on her 
accomplishments as a performing artist. 
Other articles discuss her work as a judge at film festivals but do not describe her work in terms that 
suggest she has garnered sustained national or international acclaim through her performing arts 
activities. For example, in one article which principally discusses the events at a film festival, it is 
noted that the "young artist, [the Petitioner], handed out the plaques for the contest." 
The record also contains an article that discusses a pedophilia documentary that was filmed by the 
Petitioner and Mr. S-. The article provides general statistics about pedophilia, emphasizes that the 
sexual abuse of minors is a matter of huge concern, and notes that "[ c ]rowd fonding has also been 
launched to support the high costs of the movie." But the article does not discuss the significance of 
the Petitioner's work on this project to the motion picture industry, nor does it suggest in any other 
way that the Petitioner garnered sustained acclaim through this work. 
There are other articles in the record that similarly discuss the Petitioner; some also mention in passing 
that the Petitioner has been involved with films that have garnered awards at various film festivals. 
However, this media falls short to establish to establish the Petitioner's contention on appeal that she 
"has been featured extensively in nationally and internationally circulated media that have discussed 
the merits of her work, accomplishments, and achievements in her field." Therefore, we agree with 
the Director's determination that the level and frequency of publication about the Petitioner in the 
record are not indicative of the Petitioner attaining a position at the top of the field and sustaining 
national or international acclaim for achievements as a performing artist. 
2 While we may not discuss every document submitted in support of the petition, we have reviewed and considered each 
one. 
6 
We also agree with the Director that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner was asked to 
judge the Movievalley Bazzacinema Short Film Festivals due to her national or international acclaim 
in the performing arts. As discussed by the Director, a submitted article simply states that she was 
"part of the jury" in 201 7. According to the letter from I I the Petitioner was invited to judge 
the Burbank International Film Festival because the board "value[s] her experience as an awarded 
filmmaker and actress." The writer goes on to state that the board determined that the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge could help the festival become "Oscar-qualifying." But the letter does not 
sufficiently convey that she was selected to serve as a judge at the Burbank International Film Festival 
due to holding a high position and being esteemed in the field at the national or international level. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown the Burbank International Film Festival burnished its 
reputation or advanced its prestige through the Petitioner's judging work as asserted in Ms.I I 
letter. 
We acknowledge that some of the films the Petitioner produced and has acted in have attracted 
attention and received awards in recent years, but the evidence does not collectively establish that she 
has achieved or sustained a high level ofnational or international renown for her work as a performing 
artist. On appeal, the Petitioner points to awards she received for the films: ______ 
I I She notes, among other things, thatl lwon the Best Comedy Award at 
the I IFilm Festival, won Best Film at the ___________ 
Film Festival, while won Best LGBTQ Film at the Film Festival. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner provided letters from individuals involved with these festivals 
who each provide a few sentences acknowledging her involvement in these film projects and indicate 
that she should be credited with these awards. However, these letters are all dated after the date of the 
RFE in which the Director requested such evidence and were written at least a year or more after the 
granting of the awards at the festivals. 
For instance, the letter submitted to confirm her receipt of the I I award at the I IFilm 
Festival was written in 2023, two years after the award itself was given in 2021. Here, the record lacks 
contemporaneous probative evidence to illustrate that the awards the Petitioner received are 
recognized as being prestigious in the performing arts field at the national or international level, or 
that they otherwise brought acclaim to the Petitioner as an actor or as a producer. In evaluating the 
evidence, eligibility is to be determined not by the quantity ofevidence alone but by its quality. Matter 
ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). Based on this lack of probative evidence, we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner had not established that she enjoys sustained acclaim as a 
performing artist at the national or international level. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. 
7 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of contemporary dance. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We therefore agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
established her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 17, 2024 In Re: 31109673 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer scientist currently working with artificial intelligence and machine learning 
(AI/ML) technology, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate, as required, 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among that small percentage at the very 
top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner completed his graduate studies in electrical engineering and computer science in Brazil. 
He worked as a faculty member and department head at two Brazilian institutions between 2001 and 
2021. At the time of filing this petition, he was employed as the executive director for data science 
for a U.S.-based financial technology company, in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet six criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in professional associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi) and 
(viii). The record supports the Director's determination. The Petitioner provided evidence of his 
involvement in peer review for scientific journals and conferences which demonstrates that he 
participated as a judge of the work of others in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, 
the Petitioner has authored and published scholarly articles and therefore satisfies the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Finally, the record includes a letter from the Petitioner's current employer which provides a detailed 
account of the nature of his leadership role as executive director for data science, as well as an 
explanation of how his contributions in this role have been critical to his employer's technological 
development and financial growth. This letter was accompanied by evidence of the employer's 
distinguished reputation in its field, including evidence that the business has received significant 
2 
funding from investors, positive coverage in industry media, and industry awards. Therefore, we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires 
evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. As the Director determined that the Petitioner 
met three of the evidentiary criteria and thereby satisfied the initial evidence requirements, they 
proceeded to a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (iii). 1 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate his claims regarding 
these two additional criteria in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international claim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of his endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if those 
achievements are sufficient to demonstrate their extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that a significant portion of the appellate brief references the 
Petitioner's filing of an immigrant petition requesting a national interest waiver (NIW) under section 
203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. Specifically, the brief mentions his eligibility under the three-prong 
analytical framework for adjudication of NTW petitions set forth in Matter ofDhanasar, 26 T&N Dec. 
884, 889 (AAO 2016) and requests that the AAO "grant him the National Interest Waiver pursuant to 
INA§ 203(b)(2)(B)." If it was the Petitioner's intent to request a change in the requested immigrant 
visa classification on appeal, we note that such a change cannot be granted after a petition has been 
adjudicated; we will only consider his eligibility for the visa classification annotated on the petition. 
With respect to the immigrant classification requested on the petition, the Petitioner generally contests 
the Director's unfavorable decision, emphasizes that he met at least three evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and asserts that he is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
According to his resume, the Petitioner completed his bachelor's degree in computer science in 1997 
and received both his master's degree in electrical engineering and doctorate in computer science from 
in Brazil, in 2001 and 2011, 
respectively. From 2001 until 2018, the Petitioner was employed by ___________ 
a Brazilian college, as the head ofthe computer information systems department. In 2021, 
he joined the faculty of ______________________ as a computer 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence of an individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic. or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner asserts in his brief that the Director 
determined that he met this criterion. We note, however, that the Director's analysis of the claims and supporting 
documentation submitted in support ofthis criterion concluded with a determination that "the submitted evidence does not 
meet this criterion." 
3 I 
science professor and head ofl Iinformation technology department, responsible for supervising 
the campus computer network infrastructure. Since 2021, the Petitioner has served as the executive 
director for data science for a U.S.-based financial technology company, where 
he is responsible for leading a team of artificial intelligence professionals to develop machine learning 
models for financial applications. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in his field as a 
peer reviewer, authored scholarly articles, and holds a leading or critical role for his current employer. 
We have also considered evidence related to his membership in an association in his field, his original 
research contributions, and published materials about him. This evidence reflects that he is an 
experienced and accomplished researcher, educator, and manager in the computer science field. The 
record, however, does not contain evidence sufficient to show that he has risen to the very top of his 
field and has sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his service as a peer reviewer for several professional journals 
and conferences in his field. Specifically, he documented that he reviewed manuscripts submitted for 
publication to the following journals and conferences: IEEE Pervasive Computing ( one review in 
2008); 2008 IEEE Conference on Emerging Technologies & Factory Automation (ETF A) (two 
reviews); Journal of Medical Systems (one manuscript in 2014); and Journal of Network and 
Computer Applications (five reviews between June 2022 and April 2023). The Petitioner's resume 
indicates that he has also served as a reviewer for Journal ofEnte,prise Information Management, 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Communications Letters, and the 44th and 45th 
Southeastern Symposia on System Theory. In addition, some of the submitted reference letters 
indicate the Petitioner has reviewed "dozens" of manuscripts. However, he has not sufficiently 
documented any additional peer review activities beyond the nine instances mentioned above. 
An evaluation of the significance of the Petitioner's experience is appropriate to determine if such 
evidence is indicative ofthe extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. See 
Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22 (finding that a review of the significance of the evidence submitted is 
appropriate in a final merits determination); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The Director observed that "reviewing manuscripts for 
journals is a common expectation in the research and academic fields for professionals who themselves 
author and submit articles for review." The Director acknowledged that peer review work "indicates 
a level of knowledge or expertise in the field" but concluded "the record does not demonstrate that the 
[Petitioner's] judging/review work has set him apart from others." 
We agree with the Director's determination that participation in the peer review process does not 
automatically support a conclusion that a researcher has achieved the recognition required for this 
classification, a determination that the Petitioner has not addressed on appeal. The Petitioner provided 
an expert opinion letter from a professor at who states that "being asked to 
serve as a judge ... for someone's work in scholarly events or academia recognizes [the Petitioner's] 
expertise," but he did not further expand on how the Petitioner's activities as a peer reviewer 
distinguish him from others in the field. 
A recommendation letter from one of the Petitioner's former professors at I Istates that "well­
known scientific journals only invite leading scientists to review/judge the scientific work submitted." 
4 
However, this statement is not adequately supported in the record, which does not include 
corroborating evidence documenting the criteria used by journals (such as IEEE Pervasive Computing 
or Journal ofNetwork and Computer Applications) to select peer reviewers. Absent such evidence, 
the record does not support a determination that the journals that invited the Petitioner to conduct peer 
reviews reserve this distinction for those scientists and researchers at the top of a given field. In fact, 
the evidence submitted to document the Petitioner's peer review service for the 2008 IEEE ETFA 
Conference indicated that manuscript submissions were reviewed by approximately 300 reviewers and 
that all prospective conference participants who submitted their work were asked to review 
manuscripts submitted by their peers; there was no indication that the conference reserved such 
requests for "leading scientists." 
Finally, as noted, while some of the submitted reference letters indicate the Petitioner completed 
"dozens" of reviews, he did not fully document his claimed peer review activities. Rather, he 
submitted evidence documenting his review of nine manuscripts over a period of 15 years. Without 
evidence that sets the Petitioner apart from other researchers who are called on to perform peer review 
services in his field, he has not provided sufficient context to demonstrate that the nature and scope of 
his peer review work is indicative of his sustained national or international acclaim or indicative of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Likewise, publication of research does not automatically place a researcher or professor at the top of 
their field. Here, the Petitioner submitted his Google Scholar profile showing that 12 of his 
publications have been cited at least one time, including several journal articles and conference 
presentations, a book chapter, his master's degree thesis, and his doctoral dissertation. The dates of 
publication range from 2003 to 2021, with only two works published in the ten years preceding the 
filing of the petition in 2023 ( one in 2015 and one in 2021 ). The Petitioner did not provide evidence 
differentiating his publication rate from those of others in his field, or otherwise establish that it is 
reflective of one who is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists, researchers and academics, 
the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine 
the recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such recognition or influence has been 
sustained. For example, numerous independent citations of the Petitioner's work may provide solid 
evidence that his work has been recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by his 
work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122. 
Here, the record indicates that, as of February 2023, the Petitioner's body of published work had 
received 74 total citations, with 13 citations since 2018. The Petitioner's two most-cited articles, a 
2008 conference presentation titled 
1 I and a 2010 article titled __________________I I published in Business Process Management Journal, had received 32 and 13 citations 
respectively, with the latter last cited in 2018. The Petitioner's citations, both individually and 
collectively, show that his work has received some recognition in his field. However, he did not 
provide evidence demonstrating that the total rate of citations to his body of published work is high 
5 
relative to others in the field or that the citations to his research represent attention at a level consistent 
with being among small percentage at the very top ofhis field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that depending on the field and the comparative data a petitioner provides, 
such evidence may indicate a person's high overall standing in a given field). 
The Petitioner emphasized that several of his peer-reviewed articles have been accessed or 
downloaded directly from the publishers' websites and that overall, his work had been downloaded 
"more than 3200 times," with one article receiving over 1600 downloads. However, the record does 
not contain comparative information, such as access or download data for papers published by others 
in his field. Without supporting evidence to provide such context, he has not supported his claim that 
the total number of times his published research was downloaded or accessed is indicative of his 
standing at the top of his field. Nor does the record demonstrate that evidence of downloads should 
carry the same weight as a high number ofcitations in terms ofestablishing the Petitioner's recognition 
in the field. Unlike a citation history, an access or download count does not convey whether or how 
the Petitioner's research findings have been used in subsequent research activities. If downloads of 
his work have resulted in few citations, then we cannot conclude that the number of downloads can be 
correlated with a pattern of sustained acclaim and recognition in the field. Here, although the 
Petitioner provided evidence that his 2010 article published in Business Process Management Journal 
was downloaded or accessed 1,600 times, the article was cited a total of 13 times in 13 years and had 
not been cited by others in the five years immediately preceding the date of filing. While we do not 
discount the possibility that a high number of downloads could indicate a level of recognition 
comparable to a high level of citations, the record here does not provide the context or evidence to 
support such a finding. 
The Petitioner also stated that his most recent article, the final version ofwhich was published in 2023, 
appeared in the Journal ofIntelligent Manufacturing. The Petitioner emphasized that this journal has 
an impact factor of 7.136, which places it among the "most influential" journals in the field. 
Publication of an article in a journal with a relatively high impact factor, however, does not indicate 
the Petitioner has necessarily garnered recognition or acclaim as a result of such publication. A 
reference letter from the Petitioner's former colleague and fellow researcher atl Ihighlights the 
impact factor ofthis journal as evidence ofthis article's "academic relevance" but the record otherwise 
lacks information regarding the level of recognition or acclaim associated with publishing in the 
Journal ofIntelligent Manufacturing. 
The Petitioner also highlights the inclusion of his article titled ____________ in in the Astrophysics Data System (ADS), a digital library portal 
operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory under a cooperative agreement with NASA. 
Evidence in the record indicates that ADS maintains over 13 million physics, astrophysics, and general 
science publications. The Petitioner submitted articles that highlighted the inclusion of his work in 
the ADS database from three Brazilian publications, including two newspapers and a technology news 
website. However, as discussed in the Director's decision, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
these published articles appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media or 
that they otherwise contributed to the Petitioner's national or international acclaim in the field. 
Further, the record contains insufficient evidence to establish that having an article included in this 
database of 13 million publications is indicative of an individual researcher's standing in their field. 
The record lacks supporting evidence regarding ADS and the criteria it uses to select articles for 
6 
inclusion in the database. Notably, the article the Petitioner had selected for inclusion in ADS, which 
was published in International Journal ofElectronics in 2015, has been cited only one time, according 
to his Google Scholar profile. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner's publication in a high impact journal and the inclusion of his article 
in ADS may be noteworthy, he did not demonstrate that his overall publication record demonstrates 
the required sustained national or international acclaim for this classification or reflects that he has 
reached the very top of his field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addressing the Petitioner's leading and critical roles, the Director recognized the valuable work and 
contributions he has made to his employers' organizations. However, the Director concluded that the 
record lacked evidence to demonstrate how his work for those organizations sets him apart from others 
or how his roles reflected or resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim in the field. The 
Petitioner does not address or contest this conclusion on appeal. 
The record reflects the Petitioner has been employed as a department head by two institutions of higher 
education in Brazil and in a senior management role with 
Evidence ofa person's employment or research experience with leading institutions in their field ( such 
as U.S. or foreign universities with high or very high research activity, or a university that is highly 
regarded accordingly to widely recognized metrics) can be a positive factor toward demonstrating that 
the person is among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). While the Petitioner provided evidence to demonstrate that his current 
employer has a distinguished reputation in its industry, he did not submit sufficient independent 
evidence demonstrating that the organizations that employed him previously are leading or highly 
regarded/highly ranked research institutions in Brazil, or that they, or the specific academic 
departments that he led, otherwise enjoy a distinguished reputation. 
Further, although the record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has performed in 
critical roles for his employers, he has not demonstrated how or to what his extent his employment in 
these roles resulted in or is indicative of his sustained acclaim or recognition in his field. For example, 
with respect to his role at I I a letter from the school's director-general, indicates that all its 
professor vacancies "must be hired upon approval in a Civil Service Examination for government 
jobs." SheShe states that the Petitioner "achieved the second-highest score in the public examination for 
professors," and as a result secured one of the available positions outlined in a public notice. 
While the Petitioner was successful in this competitive hiring process, the record does not establish 
how his high score on a civil service examination is consistent with national acclaim or indicative of 
his standing at the top of his field. The director-general's letter describes some of the projects the 
Petitioner undertook during his tenure atl Iand notes that he was invited to be a commencement 
speaker for graduating students of "the Technical Course in Computing Integrated to High School at I However, the letter from I Idoes not discuss how his role garnered him individual 
recognition outside of this organization at a level consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
The letters documenting the Petitioner's tenure at I I similarly lack an explanation as to how 
his role with this college contributed to his national or international acclaim in his field. While a 
former student from the Petitioner's department provided a letter highlighting his own professional 
7 I 
successes and those of other alumni, this evidence does not establish that the achievements of the 
college's graduates resulted in the Petitioner's receipt of widespread recognition or acclaim within the 
broader field. The Petitioner also provided evidence that he was one of several persons in his field 
quoted in an article titled which was published by 
the Brazilian newspaper Diario de Canoas in __2018. The article identified the Petitioner as a 
professor and "coordinator of the Information Technology course" atl I However, as noted 
by the Director, the article was not about him or his work in the field and was not published in major 
media. 
Regarding his role as the executive director of data science at I I a letter from the 
company's CEO indicates that the Petitioner was hired for his position based on the recommendation 
ofal Iemployee who had worked with him during his graduate studies atl IWhile 
the CEO's letter details his important contributions to I I it does not indicate that the 
Petitioner's activities with this company have garnered him individual recognition from the field or 
contributed to his sustained national or international acclaim, nor does it indicate that he was recruited 
or sought for the role based on his acclaim or standing in his field. 
The Petitioner has consistently emphasized his senior membership in the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) as evidence of his extraordinary ability, noting that only lOpercent of 
IEEE's over 400,000 members hold this membership rank. The record reflects that the Petitioner's 
senior membership in IEEE is notable in that it requires "extensive experience" and certain 
professional accomplishments in the field, such as publication ofpapers or development or furtherance 
of scientific or engineering courses. However, the record does not demonstrate that the "senior 
member" rank is reserved only for those IEEE members who have achieved acclaim at the national or 
international level or is otherwise indicative of their standing at the very top of the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's research activities, the Director observed that he had made original 
contributions to the field through his authorship of papers, conference presentations, and book 
chapters, and acknowledged the value this work. The Director also acknowledged evidence ofinterest 
in his work through citations and downloads, evidence that his work had been used by others 
(including the Hewlett Packard RFID Center ofExcellence in Brazil), and the Petitioner's submission 
of letters from his colleagues, employers and experts that speak to both the nature and impact of his 
contributions and his standing in the field. However, the Director determined that he had not 
demonstrated that his contributions are of major significance to the field or that such contributions 
resulted in the Petitioner "having achieved sustained acclaim as one of the very top of the field of 
endeavor." The Petitioner does not directly address this determination on appeal. 
The Petitioner has shown that his work, particularly the research he conducted in the field of RFID 
technology, was valuable and that he was a contributor to joint research efforts conducted by Brazil's 
universities and the private sector when this technology was in an early stage of development and 
adoption in the early 2000s. However, the evidence, considered individually and collectively, does 
not establish that his contributions have been recognized at a level that elevates him to the top of his 
field or that they have resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim. 
For example, a letter from R-S-F-, a principal scientist at the _________ who states 
that he is personally familiar with the Petitioner's work, provides an overview of the Petitioner's 
8 
education and career, and details the nature of his contributions to this field by summarizing his 
publications and the number of citations or downloads they received. He opines that the Petitioner 
"can be considered a reference" in the RFID field but does not further elaborate on how his 
achievements have been recognized at a level that places him at the very top ofthe field. A letter from 
E-L-B-, a Microsoft software engineer who attended I lwith the Petitioner, is similar in content. 
The letter provides an overview of the Petitioner's contributions to the RFID field, referring to him as 
a "key figure" in the development of this technology. A letter from S-P-D-, a manager at The 
states that the Petitioner has '-----------------------------' "widely recognized achievements" and "remarkable accomplishments" in the field of RFID 
technology and "revolutionized its utilization." While the Petitioner has earned significant praise from 
his former colleagues, the solicited letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor 
does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner's contributions 
in the RFID field, primarily conducted while he was completing his graduate studies, have resulted in 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is more broadly recognized as being among 
that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
The record, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, the record does not indicate a degree of recognition consistent with the sustained acclaim that 
the statute demands. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that USCIS previously approved a petition classifying the Petitioner as an 0-1 
nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability. Each petition is separate and independent and must be 
adjudicated on its own merits, under the corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. Therefore, 
the Petitioner's 0-1 status has been considered but is not determinative in the adjudication of this 
immigrant petition, which is governed by a different section of the statute and regulations and case 
law. We are not bound by service center or district director's decisions. See, e.g., La. Philharmonic 
Orchestra v. INS, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 200 I) (per curiam). For the reasons addressed above, the 
record does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for classification under section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe 
Act. We are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been 
demonstrated merely because of prior approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter ofChurch 
Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Accordingly, the appeal will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16066129 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 18, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chemical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned ~raduate degrees at the State University 
2019, he has worked atl I, in 0-1 nonimm~i_g_ra_n_t-st_a_tu_s __ 1,-------~ Since 
The Petitioner states that 
his work entails "the develo ment of ' reen ' organic compounds 
used widely in th ~-----------~ products industries." His title a~ l"Product 
Manager, R&D Water Quality." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (v). The Petitioner does not contest 
the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (iii), and therefore we consider that issue 
to be abandoned. 2 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the record of proceeding 
for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the 
same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
2 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied a third regulatory criterion, as 
explained below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had made original contributions, but 
concluded that the Petitioner had not shown them to be of major significance in the field. The Petitioner's 
principal argument on appeal is that the Director did not address the Petitioner's response to a request for 
evidence (RFE). The bulk of the appellate brief comprises lengthy quotations from the RFE response. 
The Petitioner states: "It is unclear as to whether Petitioner's 90+ page RFE response was overlooked or 
simply ignored as no comprehensive commentary or analysis is made of the evidence presented therein 
within the denial notice." In the denial notice, the Director quoted, albeit briefly, from eight letters in the 
RFE response, and described the other materials submitted (specifically "an updated citation summary 
[ and] copies of review articles"). These mentions, although not "comprehensive," refute the claim that 
the Director "overlooked or simply ignored" the RFE response. 
Nevertheless, the record shows the significance of the Petitioner's contributions in the area of simplified 
.__ ___ ___.I processes which significantly improved the efficiency of the process while eliminatingLJ 
that otherwise contaminatq..,___,,----,-----,-,--,---.,...IProducts for which purity is an important priority. We will 
not repeat the highly technical details here, but the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that some of his contributions have major significance in the field. 
Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence suffices to meet three initial criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The satisfaction of three regulatory criteria does not facially establish sustained national or 
international acclaim, because an individual can satisfy some of those criteria in a manner that neither 
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
reflects prior acclaim nor results in subsequent acclaim. For example, the publication of scholarly 
articles, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), is not a privilege reserved for top researchers. 
Rather, it appears to be routine and expected in many academic disciplines. 
Likewise, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is broad enough to encompass a wide range of 
activities that involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, 
sustained acclaim in the field. Several of the Petitioner's judging activities involve evaluating 
submissions to symposia a~ I Other activities involve reviewing the work of candidates for 
graduate degrees, an activity requiring some level of expertise but which, in the aggregate, is routine 
at countless universities that grant such degrees. Finally, the Petitioner submits a copy of an email 
message inviting him to serve as a reviewer on the editorial board of Science Journal of Chemistry. 
This message does not show that he actually participated as a judge, as the regulation requires; it is 
only an invitation to do so in the future. Furthermore, the record does not establish the reputation of 
the journal or show that its editorial board consists exclusively of acclaimed individuals at the top of 
the field. 
Several of the letters in the record emphasize the Petitioner's citation history. At the time of filing the 
petition, the Petitioner had 157 citations and an h-index of 6, meaning six of his articles had been cited 
at least six times each. The number of citations increased by the time the Petitioner responded to the 
RFE, at which time the Petitioner's former graduate advisor atl lstated: "A citation number 
of 1 78 is an imposing number for a researcher within four years of being a doctor, especially 
considering that [the Petitioner] does not work as a Professor at a University."! • l's former dean 
of the Chemistry faculty states that the Petitioner has amassed "a remarkable [citation] record for a 
researcher of his age." The regulations limit eligibility to the small percentage at the very top of the 
field as a whole, rather than a subset of the field that excludes the most accomplished and experienced 
individuals working in that field. 
The Petitioner's graduate advisor also states: "The impressively high quality of [the Petitioner's] work 
led to the nomination of his thesis as the Best Thesis of the Year 2016 in the field of Chemical 
Engineering." He does not cite any corroborating evidence, or elaborate as to who nominated the 
thesis or the scope of the honor ( e.g., whether consideration was field-wide, or limited to theses at I I. Without this information, the assertion that the Petitioner was nominated for a student-level 
prize that he apparently did not receive is of very limited value in this proceeding. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that "the individuals providing testimony included highly esteemed 
internationally renowned scientists. . . . Surely the information offered by such distinguished 
individuals deserves a more thorough assessment." This is a valid observation as far as it goes, but at 
the same time, it cannot suffice for the Petitioner to show the endorsement of "distinguished 
individuals"; he must show that he has risen to the highest level of distinction himself. 
To establish their credentials, these individuals provide various statistics that invite comparison with 
the Petitioner's own achievements. For instance, the aforementioned professor atl lstates: 
"The international impact of my work can be attested by my 45 h index and over 8,750 citations."D I I a senior scientific researcher at the~--------------~ in I I Russia, states: "I have published over 302 scientific papers, 17 books and 7 patents; my 
publications have generated 9,211 citations." We would not expect a young researcher to have 
4 
produced the same quantity of articles as a researcher with decades of experience, but the burden is on 
the Petitioner to establish that he has reached the highest levels of recognition in the field regardless 
of age or experience. 
The statute requires "extensive documentation" of sustained acclaim. In this case, the Petitioner relies 
heavily on letters from individuals who describe the Petitioner's work and assert that it has won him 
recognition in the field. Almost all of these individuals have demonstrable ties to the Petitioner, mostly 
through I I Their statements are not first-hand evidence that the Petitioner has earned 
recognition beyond those who have not worked with him. 
An individual who has not worked with the Petitioner is a neurof harmacologist 
who is "currently serving as Founding President ." _ ladds 
that he "was credited with coining the term in 199 5." We note that a 
printout from Wikipedia accompanie ~--~s letter, presumably to est,b)isb bis crrentials. The 
Wikipedia printout is dated July 20, 2020, three days before the date of1 ..... ___ _._ letter, and it 
therefore appears thatl I supplied this printout himself The printout reads, in part: 
"";:I ===.:lo::.:r..:.iiginated the term -----------,,--r-"' ___ ' There is no consensus among 
.... 1 ---~I researchers that empirical evidence exists to justify such a concept. 
I ~ ~ ~ is not a medically recognized disorder: The diagnostic 
validity of LJhas not been recognized by thd !Association in 
its diagnostic manual, th~ I 
'Journal of Reward f eficiencv '\vndrome m1J ~tion 
Science and founded the com an that ublishes it,
1 __ ----,----,----,,-.,......,.....,..,..---,-----='-- l__Jwas 
also editor-in-chief of 's Journal o Addiction Research & 
Therapy (]ART) from 2013 to 2015. Both,___ ______ __.andl I 
are ... widely regarded as predatory open-access publishers. 
User-edited websites such as Wikipedia are not necessarily authoritative; there are no assurances about 
the reliability of its content. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F .3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). N evertheles~ the I 
Petitioner's voluntary submission of this printout, ostensibly as supporting evidence to establis 
LJ's credibility and authority, raises questions that the record does not answer. 
.__ ____ _.Is letter also raises questions.4 He asserts that one factor in the Petitioner's favor is the 
"high ... quantity of [the Petitioner's] publications (~50 publications)," but a Google Scholar printout 
4 An accompanying biographical sketch oti._ ___ _.l concludes with the following passage: 
5 
in the record identifies fewer than 20 scholarly writings by the Petitioner, including journal articles, 
conference presentations, patents, and graduate theses. 
____ ___,,,I's letter also includes this passage: "In 2017, I was on the short list of nominees for the 
~---~lin Chemistry." To support this last claim, the Petitioner submits a copy of an article from 
Che~World in which various third-party institutions speculated about possible winners of the 
2017L__J The record contains no evidence thatl I was formally nominated for the I I 
and no statement from anyone who claims to have nominated! I Nevertheless, the 
Petitioner asserts on appeal that we should give substantial weight to this letter because it is from "a I I nominee." 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as 
expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS 
is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign national's eligibility. 
The submission of letters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of 
eligibility. Id. USCIS may even give less weight to an opinion that is not corroborated or is in any 
way questionable. Id. 
For the above reasons, while the Petitioner has been involved in important research, he has not 
established significant recognition beyond those who have worked with him at I I and 
elsewhere. Issues with some of the submitted letters, discussed above, diminish their evidentiary 
weight. The record does not establish that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
This passage appears to be an instmction as to how third parties should forma~ Is digitally reproduced signature 
when inserting it into a deurneor w: QQTP that the submitted letter does not conform to these instmctions, as it shows the 
double signature in both ]characters. (The digital signatures on the letter appear to match, exactly, the 
signatures on the biographical sketch.) These circumstances raise qrstions abouf the origin and provenance of the letter, 
which diminish its evidentiary weight. If the instmctions come from . .__ ___ _.himselt: then the letter's deviation from 
those instmctions suogests that someone other thanl , I added the signature to the letter, in which case it is not 
certain tb:a~ : I has seen or otherwise approved the letter. If the instructions are from some other source, then the 
question arises as to why an unnamed third party is in a position to issue instructions as to how to digitally sign letters on I ~ behalf. 
6 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The evidence regarding the Petitioner's reputation is heavily concentrated 
at I [ rather than indicating acclaim throughout the field. As noted above, some of the 
Petitioner's evidence raises questions which diminish the weight we afford that evidence. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 26378313 Date: MAY 18, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner describes himself as a "medical doctor specializ[ing] in lawsuit and health rights," who 
seeks employment as a legal consultant specializing in medical malpractice litigation. He seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. The Director 
also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his entry into the United States will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 3 7 5-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a medical degree in Brazil, and practiced emergency medicine there from 2010 
to 2014. He then worked for "a public company that conducts the entrance medical exams for some 
public jobs in Brazil" from 2014 to 2018. He has also worked for Brazilian comis as a medical advisor 
for various types oflitigation. He established a legal consulting company in 201 7. The Petitioner has 
served on the Conselho Regional de Medicina do Distrito Federal (CRM-DF) (Board of Physicians 
of the Federal District), which has disciplinary authority over physician conduct, and the Associacao 
Brasileira de Medicina Legal e Pericias Medicas do Distrito Federal (ABMLPM-DF) (Federal 
District Board of Forensic Medicine). The Petitioner intends "to study law in the US as soon as 
possible," and to assist lawyers with medical malpractice litigation, while continuing to work remotely 
for employers and organizations in Brazil. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have submitted evidence, or comparable evidence, relating to five of 
the criteria, pertaining to memberships in associations; published material; participation as a judge of 
the work ofothers; original contributions of major significance; and leading or critical roles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's work with CRM-DF satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which entails judging the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
also meets the other four claimed criteria, either directly or through comparable evidence. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion, 
pertaining to judging. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner documented his membership in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF, but has not shown that these 
organizations are associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the president of CRM-DF, who cited article 12 ofFederal Council 
of Medicine Resolution No. 1974/11, which states: "The doctor must not allow his name to be included 
in contests ... to choose the 'doctor ofthe year,' 'outstanding,' 'best doctor,' or other denominations that 
aim at promotional or advertising purposes." The president of CRM-DF stated that, because of this 
regulation, "[i]t is ... forbidden to participate in an association that needs outstanding achievements." 
The Petitioner stated that, because ofthe rnle described above, the regulato1y language does not apply to 
physicians in Brazil, and therefore the Director should accept comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). It is not sufficient for the Petitioner to claim or establish that a particular c1iterion does not 
apply; the Petitioner must also establish that the substitute evidence is "comparable" to the type of 
evidence described in the criterion. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his memberships are 
comparable to the memberships described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Brazilian regulation that created "Regional Councils of Medicine," including CRM-DF, indicates 
that members ''will be chosen by secret ballot" cast by "the physicians regularly registered in each 
Regional Council." This information shows that CRM-DF members are chosen by all participating local 
physicians, rather than by nationally or internationally recognized expe1is. 
Fmihennore, the Petitioner has not established that CRM-DF is an "association in the field." The record 
shows it to be a government-established disciplinary body, whose members have official duties and 
receive "daily allowances" and other "compensation," according to the submitted regulations. The 
Petitioner referred to his position at CRM-DF as a "job"with a "salary." Employment is not the same as 
membership in an association. 
The record contains less information about ABMLPM-DF. A letter from the organization's treasurer 
refers to the entity as "a private association responsible for knowledge of the correct practice of the 
profession." The letter does not explain the criteria that one must meet in order to join the organization. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established membership in qualifying associations. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his election to leadership positions in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF, 
along with his invitation to testify before the Brazilian Senate, demonstrates his recognition in the field. 
Senate testimony, however, does not constitute or reflect membership in an association. Also, leadership 
positions are not, themselves, memberships in associations. A separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), discussed below, pertains to leading or critical roles. 
The Petitioner has not established that his membership in CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF is comparable to 
the memberships described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 If this decision had reached a final merits determination, the narrow geographic jurisdiction of the two organizations 
would have come into play. The statute requires recognition at a national or international level. CRM-DF and ABMLPM-
DF, by nature, are district-level organizations with jurisdiction limited to the vicinity ofBrazil's capital cityj I 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title. date. and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner again cited the Federal Council of Medicine resolution quoted above, claiming that it 
prohibits "publication of journalistic material promoting [a] doctor's work." The Petitioner does not 
submit any independent evidence to support this interpretation ofthe regulation. The president ofCRM­
DF stated, "we discourage the publication ofjournalistic material promoting the doctor's work," but the 
cited regulation refers specifically to "promotional or advertising purposes," rather than to journalism, 
and the record does not establish CRM-DF's authority to prevent the publication of news articles (as 
distinct from advertisements) about physicians. 
Initially and again on appeal, the Petitioner has asked the Director to consider, as comparable evidence, 
video footage of his testimony on the website of the Brazilian Senate. The Petitioner did not submit 
documentary evidence to establish that viewership ofsuch testimony on the Senate website is comparable 
to that of major media. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix, for information 
about the types of evidence that can establish that published material meets the regulatory requirements. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit the required English translation ofthe testimony, or establish 
that his testimony was about him, pertaining to his work in the field. From its suITounding context, it 
appears that the Petitioner's testimony was about the issue of disability benefits for individuals with 
monocular vision. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation showing that Brazil passed legislation designating the loss of 
vision in one eye as a disability for legal purposes. The designation entitles affected persons to certain 
public benefits. The Petitioner had been involved in related litigation and testified to the Brazilian Senate 
in support ofthis legislation. 
In the denial notice, the Director quoted from letters submitted in support of the petition, and concluded 
that, while the Petitioner had made original contributions, he had not shown their major significance. The 
Director did not specifically address the Brazilian legislation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asks: "How is it that the creation of a law, which impacts thousands of lives 
nationwide, does not represent a significant impact in the field?" While the record shows that the 
Petitioner testified in favor ofthe legislation in question, the Petitioner is not a legislator, and he does not 
claim to have drafted the statutory text or to have initiated the efforts to pass the law. Rather, he was one 
ofseveral activists who each contributed in various ways to the passage ofthe statute. 
A translated printout from the Senate's website indicates that the Petitioner was one of 14 people who 
testified at a July 2019 hearing about the proposed legislation. The law was enacted nearly two years 
later, in March 2021. The evidence in the record does not show that the Petitioner is sufficiently 
responsible for the passage ofthe legislation that the law can be considered as his contribution to the field. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion __________ CRM-DF, ____ 
ABMLPM-DF, and his ownership of a consulting organization. The Director requested "[o]bjective, 
documentary evidence to demonstrate the distinguished reputation of the organizations or establishments 
for which the beneficiary perfo1med in leading or critical roles. The evidence should document the 
organizations' or establishments' eminence, distinction, or excellence." 
In response, the Petitioner stated that the organizations all have distinguished reputations because CRM­
DF "is a government agency created by law, responsible for regulating and supervising the correct 
exercise of medicine" and ABMLPM-DF "represents all Forensics doctors in" Brazil's Federal District. 
Regarding his company, the Petitioner stated: "Lawyers from all over Brazil seek our services," and that 
the company's "perfonnance ... was enough to draw the attention ofthe Federal Senate," which invited 
the Petitioner to testify. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that the organizations "possess a level of 
eminence or distinction that sets them apart from the others and the info1mation provided has not 
established that the organizations have a distinguished reputation." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that CRM-DF "is the highest organization to regulate and supervise the 
practice of medicine. We regulate and judge medical malpractice in our state. This is the most elevated 
position for a medical doctor, especially for a forensic doctor. ... There is none higher than that." The 
issue here, however, is not the extent of CRM-DF's local authority, but whether the organization has a 
distinguished reputation. CRM-DF is a district-level disciplinary authority, and the Petitioner did not 
show that it has a distinguished reputation in comparison to over 20 similar bodies with authority over 
other federative units and states in Brazil.2 
The Petitioner has not established that the organizations in which he performed in leading or critical roles 
have distinguished reputations. 
The above conclusions determine the outcome ofthe appeal. Therefore, we reserve the separate issue 
of whether the Petitioner's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
2 As discussed earlier above, the narrow geographic jurisdictions of CRM-DF and ABMLPM-DF would have been 
significant factors if this decision had reached a final merits determination. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner's election to leadership positions on local boards does not 
attest to recognition on a national or international scale. The record does not establish sustained 
national or international acclaim as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has had success in the area of malpractice litigation, but 
the record does not offer a sufficient basis to compare the scope and scale ofthe Petitioner's efforts to 
that of others engaged in similar work. With no objective, evidentiary basis for comparison, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he has reached the top of his field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19999659 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional auto racing team, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate the 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his achievements in the field through a one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the beneficiary 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows the beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary has worked for the Petitioner as a engineer since 2016. __________ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Beneficiary met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that the Beneficiary fulfills the leading or 
critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), discussed further below. 
Because the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies the minimum requirement of at least 
three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Beneficiary has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone does not establish that the person in fact meets the 
requirements for classification as a person with extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), supra (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's Law 
Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, and to persist in making 
an effort over a long period of time). 
2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary earned a Bachelor of Science degree (2012) in mechanical 
engineering froml I University of Engineering and Science, and both a Master of Science 
degree (2015 and a Doctor of Philoso h de ree (2018) in mechanical engineering from the 
University ____________ As indicated above, the Beneficiary has been 
employed as a en ineer for the Petitioner since 2016. He has also served as an associate graduate 
faculty member a bebeginning in 2020. The Beneficiary has judged the work of others, authored 
scholarly articles, and performed in a critical role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
personal and professional achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Beneficiary had participated in evaluating three technical papers for Society of 
Automotive Engineers (SAE) meetings at the time of filing. 5 The Petitioner, however, did not 
establish that the level and frequency of the Beneficiary's peer review service reflects the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In many scientific 
and academic fields, peer review is a routine element of the process by which articles are selected for 
publication or for presentation at conferences. Occasional participation in the peer review process 
does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, 
such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests 
for distinguished journals or conferences relative to others in his field, served in editorial positions for 
highly regarded journals or publications, 6 or chaired prominent evaluation committees for reputable 
conferences, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary's peer review experience for SAE 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established the beneficiary's required high level 
of expe1tise of the immigrant classification). 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner presented a February 2021 letter from SAE 
indicating that the Beneficiary reviewed three additional technical papers in 2021 after the petition was filed. The 
Petitioner, however, must establish the Beneficiary's eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
6 In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a September 16, 2020 email from an "assistant from Editorial Office of 
American Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering" asking the Beneficiary to consider joining as an editorial 
board member/reviewer. The Beneficiary received this invitation after the petition was filed. Again, eligibility must be 
established at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Nevertheless, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary 
has judged the work of others for the American Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering or that serving on its 
editorial board is indicative of national or international acclaim. 
3 
places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, the Beneficiary was appointed to a doctoral dissertation committee for a mechanical 
engineering student at in August 2020, but the appointment form does not indicate the dates 
that he performed an evaluation of the student's work. 7 Nevertheless, the Beneficiary's judging 
experience forl !involves evaluating the work of a graduate students rather than established, 
recognized professionals. Cf., Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Commr. 1994) (USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991 ). The Petitioner did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's experience in judging 
graduate students compares to others at the very top of his field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's instances of judging contribute 
to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from the field based on his 
work judging graduate students at his alma mater or reviewing several technical papers for SAE. 
Moreover, serving on a thesis or dissertation committee, or as a peer reviewer, does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's judging experience 
places him among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 8 Although 
the Petitioner submitted information from Google Scholar indicating that the Beneficiary has authored 
11 articles since 2016, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's publication record is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor did the Petitioner submit evidence 
showing the significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his overall publications compare to 
others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's published and 
presented work can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on 
the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations 
for articles authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized 
7 The RFE response included documentation indicating 
that the Beneficiary was also appointed to a master's thesis 
committee for a mechanical engineering student at in October 2020, but this appointment post-dates the filing of 
the petition. Eligibility, however. must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). 
8 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2). supra (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
and that other mechanical engineers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final 
merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner 
provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that the Beneficiary's published material has been 
cited 74 times, with his two highest cited articles receiving 25 and 16 citations, respectively. While 
the citation of his work shows that some in his field have referenced it, the Petitioner has not 
established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim. 9 See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to the Beneficiary's work represent attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE included invitations from various journals 
and conferences asking the Beneficiary to submit papers for publication or presentation, or to review 
manuscript submissions. The majority of these invitations post-date the filing of the petition. 
Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Nonetheless, the Petitioner did not establish their requirements for selecting authors or reviewers, and 
therefore we are unable to evaluate the Beneficiary's invitations in light of those requirements. 
Moreover, receiving invitations to review manuscripts, or to submit articles for publication or 
presentation based on subject matter expertise, would not provide strong support for the petition, 
because possessing expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than being nationally 
or internationally recognized, or an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to his roles, the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role as a engineer for the 
Petitioner, as well as served as an associate graduate faculty member atl I after his graduation. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary received any national or international 
attention from his positions beyond his employer or alma mater. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's roles with the Petitioner 
and I I have earned distinction, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary's professional career spanning approximately six years represents a 
career of acclaimed work and sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The record does not reflect that any of his roles resulted in widespread 
acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall field 
considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For the 
reasons discussed below, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
9 Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated how citation to the Beneficiary's articles, individually or collectively, compares to 
those who are nationally or internationally recognized in his field. 
5 
The Petitioner presented documentation reflecting that the Beneficiary received a Certificate of 
Recognition from the Center for Graduate Life a (2015) for "outstanding contributions to 
graduate student life," but the evidence does not show that this certificate is indicative of national or 
international acclaim in the field of mechanical engineering. In addition, the Petitioner provided two 
Certificates of Appreciation awarded to the Beneficiary by SAE "in recognition of outstanding 
service" as a presenter in 2018 and 2019. While the 2018 and 2019 SAE conferences acknowledged 
the Beneficiary's participation as a presenter, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
garnered national or international acclaim based on his receipt of these two appreciation certificates, 
or that they signify an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided evidence of the Beneficiary's membership with the SAEI I 
the SAE 
_____ ; and the SAE While the record includes a 
letter from SAE stating that those considered for membership in technical committees and tasks forces 
"must be competent and authoritative in the field(s) outlined by the committee scope/charter," the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's memberships required outstanding achievements, 
are somehow remarkable, or otherwise garnered sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary's memberships resulted in widespread or significant attention. See 56 Fed. Reg at 30704. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish the prestigious nature of the Beneficiary's SAE committee 
and task force memberships, or how his memberships reflect being among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Additionall , the record includes a video screenshot from the Petitioner's Facebook a e I 
an article posted on the Petitioner's website, and an 
article from the College of Engineering website I However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this coverage of the 
Beneficiary's work limited to the media of his employer and alma mater signifies national or 
international acclaim in the field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner rovided documentation of a Top Gear episode 
2016), a Chris Harris Drives web video review 2016), and a YouTube video 
2015) featuring the ____________ but there is no indication that this material is 
about the Beneficiary or that it specifically identifies him While the RFE response includes a 
2013 article from www.drivesrt.com discussing! ____________ involvement with 
thel racing program, the Beneficiary is only briefly mentioned in the article along 
with two other I I participants. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
aforementioned coverage, without any further material since 2016, is consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show how the Beneficiary's overall media 
coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting on the Beneficiary and his specific activities reflects a career 
of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The commentary for the proposed 
regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that 
6 
a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring 
the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 
56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Beneficiary's minimal media exposure does not 
meet this very high standard. 
Finally, the record includes recommendation letters discussing the Beneficiary's work for the 
Petitioner and his graduate research projects atl I 1° For example, regarding the Beneficiary's 
contributions toward the development of I 2022 I I race car, 
indicated that the Beneficia erformed 
Likewise, asserted that the Beneficiar 
rovided Similar! , 
stated that the Beneficiary's 
With respect to the Beneficiary's graduate research projects at I ll I asserted that 
the Beneficia and two other students supported "the I I activities for the design of 
2016 and develo ed "an innovative a roach for the I I design, using 
different to achieve the optimal! I 
performance." In addition stated that he met the Beneficiary while "conducting 
research related tol !vehicle safety at I noticed the contributions [the Beneficiary] 
was making to both land the field of _________ at that time." 
The recommendation letters offered by the Petitioner, however, do not contain sufficient information 
and explanation, nor does the record include corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary is 
viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary has made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a 
career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The letters describe the 
Beneficiary's work without showing how it rises to a level of major significance in the field and 
represents an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the 
Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. 
Here, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 While we discuss a sampling of the letters of support, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20181351 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in sustainable development 
and sustainable design solutions. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S. C. § 115 3 (b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for five 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on awards received by ' Asia 
Pacific Leadershi in Green Building Awards 2018 from the World Green Building Council, 
(Platinum Certification from. the Indian Green Building Council), ___ 
__,_2;;;;.,018 Architectural Design Award from the Architecture Masterprize ), ______ 
2nd Award at the International Architecture Awards 2015 from Architecture Podium), 
__________ ___,(Certificate of Honorable Mention at the Re-Thinking the Future -
Sustainability Awards 2014), and (Jury Commendation from Design and Architecture 
A ward The record describes I I as: 
Headquartered in , I I is a company founded on the idea of 
environmentally conscious living. With 20 full time staff, the goal of the organization 
is to develop communities which are self-reliant in seven strands of sustainability -
energy, food, water, air, animals, people and shelter. The project - - iis an 
amalgam between I !environments in what is an innovative paradigm that 
we call I with a goal to make the development a !community 
by using an innovative credit system for the seven strands. 1 
1 See screenshot from worldgbc .org. 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's 
receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 
Here, the Petitioner's evidence shows that the company or its project received the various awards 
rather than his receipt of them. In fact, none of the awarding documentation mention the Petitioner or 
credit him as a recipient for any of the awards. Because he did not establish his receipt of the awards, 
we need not determine their national or international recognition for excellence in the field and reserve 
this issue. 4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 5 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The record reflects that he submitted nine articles, in which only four articles contained the required 
title, date, and author of the material. 6 Moreover, none of the articles reflect published material about 
the Petitioner. Instead, the articles reflect media coverage about I I In fact, the 
Petitioner is never mentioned in seven of the articles. In the other two articles, the Petitioner is only 
quoted in providing background information relating to _____ 7 Because he did not 
demonstrate that his evidence qualifies as published material about him relating to his work in the 
field, we need not determine the professional, major trade, or other major media status of the 
publications and reserve this issue. 8 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 See articles from ],I , and _________ 
7 See articles from and _____ 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for this criterion based on _____ In order 
to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that the work that was displayed is the person's work 
product, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 9 Although he provided evidence 
indicating that he was one of the founders of the communal project, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that I I was displayed at an artistic exhibition or showcase. He did not specifically 
identify an artistic venue that displayed the project. In fact. according to the submitted documentation, I I was "[b]uilt onl I land in in " which the 
Petitioner did not show represents an artistic exhibition or showcase. 10 Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that building a Ion the outskirts of a city involves displaying his work product at an 
artistic venue consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, 
and display. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 11 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). 
See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that"[ c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. 
Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in 
9 See 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
10 See article from 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 516, n. 7 ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19646197 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through either 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting three of 
the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a writer and filmmaker whose credits include novels, short and medium stories, and 
documentary projects, many of which focus on I political and social issues. He states that he 
intends to continue to create documentaries and other written works, including his autobiography, in 
the United States. 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and published 
material, and the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies these two 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to judging 
the work of others, original contributions, and artistic display under 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and 
(vii), respectively. He further argues that he has demonstrated his sustained national or international 
acclaim, and that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor . 
For the reasons discussed below, we concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner does 
not meet at least three of the criteria. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence of participation as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization, whether as an individual or as a member of a panel. In 
su ort of these re uirements, the Petitioner claimed that he "was invited to be a jury member at the 
Film Festival. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter from ____ the artistic director of Film Festival. states 
that the Petitioner "was a member of the jury o during the 
edition of the Festival," which took place in from __ 2009, to ___ 2009. 
2 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the submitted letter was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. In response, the Petitioner submitted a second 
letter froml I dated February 8, 2021, who stated that he was "confirming the presence of 
[the Petitioner] as a special guest" at the I I editions of the I I Film Festival in 2008 
and 2010, respective! Althou h the letter indicated that the Petitioner "was a jury member in the 
debate on the new in 2008, it also stated that he "participated in the prestigious 
section,__ ______ " In conclusion,! I stated "We are still very grate ful to [ the 
Petitioner] for take part of our Festival [sic], not only as a talented and brave writer, but also for having 
implemented, in particular, independent documentary filmmaking, not only " The Petitioner 
also submitted a screenshot from www.filmfestivals.com which provided a summary of the I I 
Film Festival, as well as a copy of an article published onl in whichl is 
interviewed about the festival. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the evidence submitted was insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner had in fact judged the work of others in his field as contemplated by 
this criterion. The Director noted the requirement of "extensive documentation," as well as the very 
high standard set for individuals of extraordinary ability noted in the comments to the implementing 
regulations, 1 and found that the Petitioner had not submitted substantive evidence of his participation 
as a judge of the work of others in his field or an allied field which is "consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director "wrongly heightened the evidentiary threshold by 
requiring extra substantive evidence of 'documentation that will be able to assist us in whether you 
served as a judge and at what level,' such as 'judging slips event programs identifying the beneficiary 
as a judge, or a judge's credential from the events."' He further argues that his activities are consistent 
with Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115; Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994); and 
Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339. 
Preliminarily, we note that the issue of whether a petitioner's achievements have resulted in the 
sustained national and international acclaim required for this classification is an evaluation to be made 
in the final merits determination in cases where the individual has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); this standard should not be applied to individual evidentiary 
criteria. We acknowledge the Director's erroneous reference to this language; however, the decision 
otherwise references and discusses the plain language of this criterion as the basis for the denial and, 
accordingly, we view this error as harmless. Moreover, we exercise de nova review of all issues of 
fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016). This means 
that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial decision. 
In contrast to aforementioned legal decisions relied upon by the Petitioner, the Director's 
determination under the judging criterion in this matter was not based on the Petitioner's inability to 
demonstrate that his participation was the result of his having extraordinary ability or indicative of 
national or international acclaim. Rather, the Director determined that the documentation submitted 
by the Petitioner in support of his eligibility under this criterion lacked sufficient details regarding his 
judging activities. 
1 The Director cited to 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991) in support of this statement. 
3 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged the initial letter submitted from I but sought further 
evidence to show that in his claimed role as "member of the jury of L I I I in 2009, the Petitioner judged the work of others in his field or an allied field. In response, 
the Petitioner asserted submitted a second letter froml I stating that the Petitioner was a 
special guest at thel I editions of the festival in 2008 and 2010, respectivel and that he 
served as a jury member "in the debate on the new for the 
section in 2008. The Director concluded that this statement, along with prior statement 
regarding the Petitioner's claimed jury service in 2009, was insufficient to satisfy this criterion.2 
Upon review, we concur with the Director's determination. There is no documentary evidence in the 
record showing the specific material judged by the Petitioner at in 2008 or 2009. Although 
the letters indicate that he juded and "served as a jury member in 
the debate on the ne ______ the record is devoid of additional evidence regarding these 
events. Merely submitting statements asserting that the Petitioner has served as a judge the work of 
others without evidence showing who he judged and their field of specification is insufficient to 
establish eligibility for this criterion. 
For example, rather than submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a jury member for I I and "the debate on the new 
the Petitioner instead submitted letters from I I attesting to the 
Petitioner's involvement. Aside froml claim that the Petitioner was a jury member for 
each of these events, there is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific duties, 
assessments, and the names of the individuals whose work he evaluated. For these reasons, we find I I letters alone insufficient to verify the Petitioner's participation as a jury member, and 
he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Additionally, the record lacks official competition rules for the preceding events indicating the specific 
responsibilities for a juror, and there is no evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged 
the work of individuals in the same or an allied field. For example,! indicates that the 
Petitioner served as a jury member "in the 'debate' on the new as he participated 
in the ______ section "dedicated to promoting dialogue between the I I 
through cultural events and quality works." Absent additional documentation, it is unclear if the 
"debate" referenced here actually required the Petitioner to judge the work of individuals, such as 
assigning points or determining winners, rather than merely moderating or engaging in discussions 
with others in his field. Moreover) I provides no additional detail regarding the Petitioner's 
participation in the I portion ofl I As constituted, the record 
does not establish the nature of his participation in the preceding events, the names of the individuals 
whose work he judged, the competitive divisions or categories to which he was assigned, or the 
selection criteria for awards. Merely submitting letters stating he was a jury member, without evidence 
demonstrating who he judged or the nature of the events, is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
regulatory criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
2 No further information regarding the Petitioner's claimed service as a jury member for in 2009 was submitted. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , a petitioner must establish that 
not only have they made original contributions but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner contends primarily that his 
authorship of various literary works, and several reference letters commenting on such works, 
demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
Regarding the reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of 
his literary works through recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do 
not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance . In general, 
the letters recount the Petitioner's literary achievements but do not demonstrate that his contributions 
in the literary field have made the required impact in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Director discounted and misconstrued the expert opinion letters as they pertain to this criterion, 
and asserts that the Director's conclusion regarding whether his work was of major significance was 
erroneous . 
letters from, and background information about, several professors who 
specialize in the fields of studies and liliterature. For example, the Petitioner submitted 
a letter from Chancellor Chair for Teachin Across Disci lines at the University of 
and Professor Emeritus o Studies a University. co mmen ts on the Petitioner's novel, _________ 4 stating that this work "stunned 
literary scene" and introduced an iconoclastic literary style.I I Professor of 
Literature and Transcultural Studies atl University , states that the Petitioner is a 
prominent writer, scholar and documentary filmmaker whose works "have consistently 
engaged with national and international issues of politics, power, and moral responsibility ." She 
further notes that the Petitioner's works provide an alternative history and understanding of I 
culture. While the Petitioner has earned the admiration of these references , there is no evidence 
demonstrating that he has made original artistic contributions of major significance in the field. 
Although these references recognize the Petitioner's unique literary style, they do not provide the 
nexus between his literary style and the manner in which he has made original contributions of major 
significance in his field. 
I Department Head for the Collection Development and Technical Services and faculty 
librarian atl !University , quotes various commentaries on the Petitioner 's work in his 
letter, noting that the commentators praised the modernist themes and new developments reflected in 
the Petitioner's work. That the Petitioner has produced original work that others in the field have 
favorably reviewed is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance . I I 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume -6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significanc e in the field). 
4 We note that erroneously refers to the Petitioner's novel as _______ 
5 
also comments on the world-wide availability of the Petitioner's novels, noting that they are housed 
in a large number of U.S. libraries. HoweverJ I does not explain how the Petitioner's 
works being represented in U.S. libraries is having a discernable impact in his field. While any 
literature with exposure such as the Petitioner's can be viewed as contributing to the field, he must 
also demonstrate that his contributions are of major significance. I I indicates that the 
Petitioner's work is available outside of I but does not provide specific examples of how the 
Petitioner's work has substantially impacted the literary field, has influenced the work of other writers, 
or otherwise equates to an original contribution of major significance in the field. An individual must 
have demonstrably impacted his field in order to meet this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims that his documentary films are original contributions of major significance, 
but there is insufficient evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's films have been widely viewed 
by critics or audiences as an original contribution of major significance in the field. I I 
states that the Petitioner's films, like his literary works, have also been housed in leading U.S. 
academic libraries and have received positive reviews. In additionJ I states that several 
of the Petitioner's documentaries "are well known and respected." Here, however, the quoted letters 
demonstrate that some experts in the field are familiar with the Petitioner's films. But this familiarity 
does not establish that the Petitioner's contributions have been of major significance. Recognition 
does not necessarily equate to major significance in the field. 
Chair Professor Emeritus forl I Studies at the University of 
also comments on the Petitioner's films, noting that they "greatly enriched our understanding 
o and which are archives preserving the memory of events which otherwise 
would fall into oblivion once this generation will have passed away." Here, although I I 
praises the Petitioner's work, she simultaneously notes that his films will be 
beneficial to future generations "even if these documentaries are only known to a very limited number 
of people in the I I today." Contributions of major significance connotes 
that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also 
Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. The record as constituted is insufficient to show that the 
Petitioner's documentary films have already significantly impacted the field or otherwise equate to 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also relies on a 2001 news article where I I writer I I refers to the 
Petitioner as a "modernist" writer and notes that his introduction of irony, sarcasm, and black humor 
into fiction "opened [her] eyes." While we acknowledge that the Petitioner's work may have impacted 
this particular author, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to demonstrate that a good number of 
authors or filmmakers have been sufficiently influenced by his work such that it rises to the level of 
major significance in the field. This article does not describe how any of the Petitioner's original 
contributions in his field have resulted in a significant impact in his field as a whole, rather than 
personally on the writer being interviewed. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submits a letter from I I Director of Research Area on 
Politics, Society and Media at the I I who indicates that she is 
performing research focusing on political, economic, social, and technological developments in I 
and their global impacts. I I refers to the Petitioner as an "internationally renowned 
writer" and a "public intellectual," and states that "his eagerness and ability to inspire and moderate 
6 
discussions on contemporary societal and political issues in regard tol I but also on a more global 
scale, is of key value to me." Her praise of his work and her acknowledgement that his work is 
valuable to her falls short of demonstrating how any of the Petitioner's original contributions in his 
field have resulted in a significant impact in his field as a whole, rather than personally on 
I I 
The documentation discussed above does not provide a description of how the Petitioner's authored 
works or documentary films, individually or as a whole, have made an impact in his field in accordance 
with the regulation. The letters primarily contain broad attestations of the significance of the 
Petitioner's work without providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level 
consistent with major significance . Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
Simply stating that the Petitioner's work has gained him national and international recognition or that 
it has majorly impacted the field ofl I contemporary literature or filmmaking is not sufficient. 
Without additional detail explaining his accomplishments, the documentation submitted does not 
establish that the Petitioner's works have had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate with a 
contribution of major significance . 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner first asserted eligibility under this criterion in response to the RFE, where he claimed 
that his documentary filml lwas displayed at thel I Film Festival 
inl 2010. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner relied on I I second letter 
stating that he presented his documentary at the festival, as a well as a copy of a page from the festival's 
program brochure which provides an overview of the Petitioner's film. 
In determining that the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the requirements of this criterion, the 
Director found that the Petitioner's work did not fall into the "visual arts" such as painting, sculpting 
and photography, and further determined that the integrity of the Petitioner's evidence was 
questionable . On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's determinations were erroneous, and 
states that he has satisfied this criterion by providing evidence that his work has been displayed at 
numerous film festivals. 
Preliminarily, we disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation 
renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work 
displayed be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2 appendix. 
6 See id.; see also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 
was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Upon de nova 
review, however, we concur with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the Petitioner has not 
provided sufficient evidence to meet this criterion. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that his documentary film was displayed 
at the Film Festival inl 12010 support of this assertion, he relies on a letter from I who states that "In thel 2010, of our I I Film Festival, [the Petitioner] 
returned to honor us with his extraordinary documentary .... " The Petitioner provided what appear 
to be excerpts from the festival's program, including a cover page, pages six through eight, and page 
80. Only page 80 makes reference to the Petitioner. This page lists the title of the Petitioner's film, 
along with additional details such as the film's format, running time, year of production, and brief plot 
synopsis. While this document provides details pertaining to the Petitioner's documentary, it is 
insufficient to establish that this film was actually screened or displayed at artistic venues or showcases 
as contemplated by the plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the excerpt from the Film Festival's program is a 
self-authenticating periodical under Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE) 902( 6), and the Director's decision 
to not afford evidentiary weight to this submission was erroneous. The Petitioner, however, has submitted 
only 4 pages of what appears to be a document of at least 80 pages, and the probative value of this 
incomplete document as evidence is therefore substantially diminished. Here, pages six through eight 
make no mention of the Petitioner or his film, and page 80 merely provides a brief overview of the 
Petitioner's film without providing any details regarding when and how this film was displayed, if at all. 
The Petitioner had additional time on appeal to submit more complete and persuasive evidence, but 
neglected to do so. 
Moreover, the Petitioner asserts for the first time on appeal that the display of his independent 
documentary I lat the Art M Museum in 2013 and thel I 
Art Festival in 2014 satisfies this criterion. However, we will not consider this claim for the first time on 
appeal as it was not presented before the Director. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on 
appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" 
before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Notwithstanding, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that he actually displayed his work at these events, nor did he 
provide evidence to demonstrate that these events constitute artistic exhibitions or showcases as required 
by this criterion. Similar to his claims regarding the display of his documentary film at the Film 
Festival in 2010, the record does not contain detailed, probative information to establish that he displayed 
these works in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence that meets the plain 
language requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
8 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7880530 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 20, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) § 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This classification makes 
visas available to foreign nationals who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had neither demonstrated his receipt of a major 
internationally recognized award nor met three of the ten evidentiary criteria, as required. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider the Director's decision. 
Both motions were subsequently dismissed. The Petitioner then appealed the Director's dismissal of 
these motions to us. During the adjudication of the Petitioner's appeal, we received information that 
compromised the credibility of his claims. Accordingly , on March 23, 2021, we issued a notice of 
intent to dismiss (NOID) the appeal. In response, we received a letter from counsel dated March 30, 
2021, requesting that the Petitioner's appeal be withdrawn. The Petitioner's request to withdraw the 
appeal is granted; however, notwithstanding the withdrawal of this appeal, we will enter a separate 
finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. REQUESTFOR WITHDRAWAL OF THE APPEAL 
As noted above, we issued a NOID, notifying the Petitioner of adverse findings outside the record of 
proceeding. The Petitioner subsequently asked to withdraw the appeal. He did not acknowledge, 
discuss, or dispute the adverse findings in his withdrawal request. 
A withdrawal may not be retracted and may not be refused. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(6); Matter of Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. 9 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, the Petitioner's request will be granted and the appeal will 
be dismissed based on that withdrawal. 
III. MATERIAL MISRESPRESENTA TION 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented information about 
his membership in the China Beverage Industry Association (CBIA), which was material to the 
adjudication of the petition. 
A. Evidence of Record 
The Petitioner claimed to be an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of business as a wine expert. 
In relevant part, the Petitioner asserted his eligibility for the classification sought based upon the regulatoiy 
criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which permits a petitioner to submit evidence of his "membership in 
associations in the field ... which require outstanding achievements of their members." The Petitioner claimed 
that he satisfied this criterion through membership in multiple organizations, one of which was the China 
Beverage Industry Association (CBIA). 1 To demonstrate this, he submitted a Chinese language certificate 
1 The Petitioner also claimed eligibility through his memberships in the China National Food Industry Association , China 
2 
allegedly from CBIA and accompanying English language translation of that certificate identifying him as 
"Senior Member." The Petitioner also provided Chinese language screenshots from the website 
www.chinabeverage.org and English language translations of these documents titled "Introduction of [CBIA]," 
"Articles of [CBIA]," and "Oraauizational Structure of [CBIA]," and screenshots from www.famous-
entrepreneurs.com abou~ [ and from www.bloomberg.com abou~ I 
However, as we advised the Petitioner in our NOID, an overseas investigation by USCIS revealed 
derogatory information relating to the certificate and translations of the CBIA articles to establish his 
membership. As part of this investigation, a USCIS officer contacted the CBIA's Director of 
Membership to verify the authenticity of the membership certificate provided with the instant petition. 
The Director of Membership stated that members of CBIA are names of businesses, and that to her 
knowledge, there has never been a "Senior Member" membership category. The investigating officer 
then provided the Director of Membership a copy of the membership certificate in the record. Upon 
review of this certificate, the Director of Membership reiterated that she is unaware of CBIA issuing 
certificates in the category of "Senior Member." She further advised that alll I ~ertificates are 
issued with CBIA 's official seal and that this ce1tificate does not contain said seal. 
The investigating officer also reviewed the CBIA website screenshots and translations provided by the 
Petitioner and dete1mined that the translation for "A1ticle 12. Senior Membership C1iteria" does not 
accurately reflect what the website says. The investigating officer advised that, upon careful review of 
the website pages provided, there are no other sections entitled "Senior Membership Criteria" nor do any 
other sections refer to a "Senior Member." The officer stated that Article 7 of the provided webpage 
printout indicates that there are only two types of memberships: "Ordinary Member" and "Associate 
Member," and that it appears this section was omitted from the accompanying translation. 
In our NOID, we further noted that the Petitioner provided this evidence with a previous petition I I to establish his membership in CBIA. 2 Accordingly we notified the Petitioner 
that it appeared he had repeatedly submitted fraudulent documents and incomplete translations to 
establish eligibility for classification as an individual of exceptional ability. 
Our NOID gave the Petitioner an oppmtunity to respond to the adverse information, as required by 8 
C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i). We also advised the Petitioner that the withdrawal of his appeal would not 
prevent a finding of willful material misrepresentation. The Petitioner responded to our NOID with a 
request to withdraw the appeal but did not address the above-described adverse findings in any way. 
B. Analysis 
The facts and evidence presented in the instant matter wan-ant a finding of willful misrepresentation 
of a material fact against the Petitioner. 
National Association for Liquor Spirits Circulation, the China General Chamber of Commerce, the China Green Ribbon 
Care Association, and thl I Wine & Spirits Association. 
2 The record reflects that this petition was initially approved by the Director, but then revoked as it was approved in error 
and the Petitioner had not established eligibility for the benefit sought. In addition to revoking the approval of the petition, 
the Director entered a finding of willful misrepresentation. In a subsequently filed appealofthatdecision, we upheld the 
Director's decision and the willful misrepresentation finding. 
3 
A misrepresentation is an asse1iion or manifestation that is not in accord with the true facts. As 
outlined by the Board of Immigration Appeals, a material misrepresentation requires that the 
individual willfully make a material misstatement to a government official for the purpose of obtaining 
an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. See Matter of Kai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 288, 
289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished from 
accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See Matter ofTijam, 22 
I&N Dec. 408,425 (BIA 1998); Matter ofHea(v and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To 
be considered material, the misrepresentation must be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry 
which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which might well have resulted m a proper 
dete1mination that he be excluded." Matter of Ng, 17 I&N Dec. 536, 537 (BIA 1980). 
USCIS will deny a visa petition if the petitioner submits evidence which contains false information. 
In general, a few e1rnrs or minor discrepancies are not reason to question the credibility of a foreign 
national or an employer seeking immigration benefits. See Spencer Enters. Inc. v. U.S., 345 F.3d 683, 
694 (9th Cir. 2003). However, if a petition includes serious errors and discrepancies, and the 
petitioner does not resolve those e1rnrs and discrepancies given the opportunity to rebut or explain, 
then the inconsistencies will lead USCIS to conclude that the claims stated in the petition are not true. 
See Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988). 
In this case, the discrepancies in the documents relating to the petition constitute substantial and 
probative evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) permits a petitioner to submit evidence 
of his "membership in associations in the field ... which require outstanding achievements of their 
members." The Petitioner submitted a ce1iificate for CBIA identifying him as a member; however, an 
overseas investigation determined that this organization does not admit individuals as members. This 
investigation also revealed that official CBIA membership certificates include the association's 
official seal, and that the submitted ce1iificate lacked this seal. Moreover, the investigating officer 
determined that the translations of the CBIA articles of membership submitted by the Petitioner were 
altered. In this case, these discrepancies and errors lead us to conclude that the evidence of the 
Petitioner's membership in CBIA, which is material to his eligibility as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability," is neither true nor credible. 
When given an oppmiunity to rebut these findings, the Petitioner offered no rebuttal or explanation 
for the inconsistencies. Instead, he withdrew the appeal. If the Petitioner had not withdrawn the 
appeal, we would have dismissed the appeal based, in part, on these misrepresentations. See Cintron, 
16 I&N Dec. at 9; see also 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l4). 
Beyond the adjudication of the visa petition, a misrepresentation may lead USCIS to enter a finding 
that an individual foreign national sought to procure a visa or other documentation by willful 
misrepresentation of a material fact. This finding of fact may lead USCIS to determine, in a future 
proceeding, that the foreign national is inadmissible to the United States based on the past 
misrepresentation. 
4 
Section 212(a)(6)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C), provides: 
Misrepresentation -(i) In general -Any alien who, by fraud or willfully 
misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to procure or has 
procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other 
benefit provided under this Act is inadmissible. 
To find a willful and material misrepresentation in visa petition proceedings, an immigration officer 
must determine: 1) that the petitioner or beneficiary made a false representation to an authorized 
official of the United States government; 2) that the misrepresentation was willfully made; and 3) that 
the fact misrepresented was material. See Matter of M-, 6 I&N Dec. 149 (BIA 1954); Matter of L-L-, 
9 I&N Dec. 324 (BIA 1961); Ka; Hing Hu;, 15 I&N Dec. at 288. 
First, with the instant petition, and with a prior petition, the Petitioner submitted documents and altered 
translations intended to establish his membership in CBIA and therefore his eligibility for the 
regulatmy criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner's submission of these falsified 
documents in support of his immigrant visa petition constitutes a false representation to a government 
official. 
Second, the Petitioner willfully made the misrepresentation. The Petitioner signed the Fmm I-140, 
certifying under penalty of perjury that his petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and 
conect. See section 287(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1357(b); see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(2). More specifically, the signature portion of Form I-140, at part 8, required the Petitioner 
to make the following affirmation: "I certify, under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United 
States of Ame1ica, that this petition and the evidence submitted with it are all true and con-ect." On 
the basis of this affirmation, made under penalty of perjury, we conclude that the Petitioner willfully 
and knowingly made the misrepresentations. 
Third, the evidence is material to the Petitioner's eligibility. To be considered material, a false 
statement must be shown to have been predictably capable of affecting the decision of the decision­
making body. Kungys v. U.S., 485 U.S. 759 (1988). In the context of a visa petition, a misrepresented 
fact is mate1ial if the misrepresentation cut off a line of inquity which is relevant to the eligibility 
criteria and that inquiry might well have resulted in the denial of the visa petition. See Ng, 17 I&N 
Dec. at 537. Here, the misrepresentations regarding his memberships relate to the regulatory criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, they are mate1ial to his eligibility. 
Accordingly, by filing the instant petition, making false representations, and submitting altered 
translations, the Petitioner has sought to procure a benefit provided under the Act through a willful 
misrepresentation of material facts. This finding of willful material misrepresentation shall be 
considered in any future proceeding where admissibility is an issue. See section 212(a)(6)(C) of the 
Act. Furthe1more, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(15) provides: "Withdrawal or denial due to 
abandonment shall not itself affect the new proceeding; but the facts and circumstances sunounding 
the prior application or petition shall otherwise be material to the new application or petition." 
5 
IV. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner withdrew his appeal, we find that he made a willful misrepresentation of 
mate1ial facts. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed based on its withdrawal by the Petitioner. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY. 20, 2024 InRe: 31110672 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in the field of functional genomics, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
A review of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services records indicates that the Petitioner is also the 
beneficiary of an approved immigrant petition and has adjusted status to that of a U.S. permanent 
resident as of March 7, 2024. While the Petitioner has not withdrawn the appeal in this proceeding, it 
would appear that she is presently a permanent resident and the issues in this proceeding are moot. 
We will therefore dismiss the Petitioner's appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 20, 2024 In Re: 31160819 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an international consultant specializing in strategic communications and global 
development, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either 
through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or by satisfying at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the applicable regulations. The matter is now before 
us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who: 
• have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• offer substantial prospective benefits to the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b)(2). 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence 
requirements, we then consider the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and 
assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context ofa final merits 
determination). 
Here, because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence related to seven ofthese criteria, but the Director 
determined that he fulfilled only two: original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished 
reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked evidence demonstrating that he has 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). He further 
asserts that the Director failed to consider comparable evidence of the display of his work which 
demonstrates he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and made factual errors in evaluating 
his eligibility under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that he has earned 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner was the co-author of an article published in 
International Annals ofCriminology in 2018 and was acknowledged as such both in the article itself 
and in a supporting letter provided by his co-author. By meeting this additional criterion, the Petitioner 
has overcome the basis for denial ofthe petition through fulfillment of at least three regulatory criteria. 
Nevertheless, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish his eligibility for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further consideration 
and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director must undertake a final merits determination to 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence (including the 
Petitioner's claims on appeal) to determine if they establish that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see 
also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16877117 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a human resources and labor researcher and professor, seeks classification as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment since 2012 as an associate professor of business administration 
atl I University, Taiwan. The record reflects that she received her Ph.D. in human resource 
management froml I University, Taiwan in 2008. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that she has reviewed manuscripts 
for the International Journal of Information Management and served as a thesis examiner. In addition, 
the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional evidentiary criteria, relating to 
nationally or internationally recognized awards, published materials in major media, original 
contributions, and high salary.1 After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that her prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
1 We note that the Director detennined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the membership in 
associations criterion at 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this 
issue on appeal and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
as any limitations on competitors. 3 The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on her receipt of 
several awards for her academic research and teaching as follows: 
• 2019 Academic Research Award from th .__ ____________ __, 
Foundation for ' research results 
• 2019 I I University Academic Research Committee .__ __________ ____, 
Scholarship rant 
• 2019 University for having instructed 3rd place team in the ,, 
• 2018 '-------~~--------~-----' Academic Research Award for 
research results that were '------~------.-' 
• 201 7 Academic Research Committee of.__ __ ~ 
Scholarship grant 
• 2017 Jib::======='-~ .:.F.:::..oun==d=a=ti.:::..on:::....:.:en:::d:.:o:....:.w:...:m::e::n:.:t.=I ===::::;--:____.I Award 
• 201 Academic Research A ward for 
research results that were 
• 20131 I University.__O_ft_i-ce_o_f_R_e_s-ea_r_c_h_D~evelopment .__ __________ ____. 
Schy..,.u. ............ ..........a..........,_t 
• 201 Award fro ~~'--,======================="-, 
• 2012.__ __ ~University Office of Research Development '--------------' Scholarshi rant 
• 2011 niversity Office of Research Affairs & International Cooperation I 
fundin award .__ __ ____. 
• 2011 Research A ward for the a er titled 
L_ ______________ __,_........_........_ .......... ""t-',000 grant 
• 2011 Research A ward for the conference a er Lr------------------'-----------------'----'-~ 
L------1""---------------"'l------__J' and NT$2,000 grant 
• 200 ..,._ ________________ .............,Research Award for 1._ ______ ~ 
• 2009 Academic Research Reward for the 
conference presentation, 1 I I I for 
NT$5,000. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter addressed to her from theLI -------------r-=I._T=h=e=-, 
letter advises the Petitioner that her submission to its 2013 annual meetin er titled '._I ___ _.I 
'------------------------------------' 'was judged 
"one of the best accepted papers in our program," and invites her to revise and resubmit her paper for 
publication in the i ..... 0 " , IMeeting." Although screenshots from 
the AOM website indicate it gives Publication Awards to "journal articles that were published in the 
3 
previous year in each of the Academy's six journals," the aforementioned letter does not state that the 
Petitioner won an award or prize at the conference or otherwise. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's academic research and teaching awards, above, the record reflects 
information from thel I indicating that the Academic 
Research A ward was established "in order to improve teaching quality and promote higher education," 
and that it is given to "full-time professors who have been teaching at the department of business 
administration with the most recent 3-year publications as the examining standard." Regarding the I I A ward, a screenshot of documentation from the 
website www.senate.universit ofcalifornia.edu provides that the award was established b~ 
California-based in memory ofi I a former University of Californial__J I I professor who taught at University. The stated purpose of the award, in relevant 
part, is to "[a]ssist University o faculty members to teach, study, and research at American 
institutions of higher learning, and ... aid~--~University in its educational ro rams otherwise." 
The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate that either a I I Academic Research Award or a========================================-A_w_a-rd__, 
is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence by the overall field. 4 
As it pertains to the aforementioned Best Paper Award from the I I the record does not conta._i_n_i_n_fo_rm--at_i_o_n_a_b_o_u_t_t_h_e_n_a_t-io_n_a_l_o__.r 
international recognition of the award and issuing organization. The Petitioner did not submit 
secondary evidence, such as news articles or letters from the sponsoring organization, documenting 
the prestige associated with this award that would indicate national or international recognition as an 
award for excellence in her field. The documentation submitted does include the criteria used to select 
the best paper submitted to the conference. The Petitioner has not provided any evidence to indicate 
that this award conveys national or international recognition or that the award recognizes excellence 
within the field. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she satisfies this criterion based on submitted copies of online articles 
from Chinese publications. The articles were published by United Daily News (www.money.udn.com, 
citing Economic Daily News as its source), Apple Daily (Taiwan) (www.tw.finance.appledaily.com), 
Commercial Times (www.m.ctee.com.tw), and China Times (www.chinatimes.com, citing 
Commercial Times as its source). 5 The articles from these sources, all datedl 12019, were 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 
5 The P:tjtjoner also provided an article in which she is quoted on the subject of Taiwan's! l published on I I 2020, in the magazine Du Wei TW. However, because the Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of 
filing (February 24, 2020) in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ), we will evaluate evidence that pre-dates the filing of 
the petition. 
4 
reviews of a seminar organized byl I university on the topicl.__ ___________ ------1 
.__ _________________ _.I hosted by the university chairperson]~----~ 
While these articles identify the Petitioner as a panelist and professor in the business administration 
department and quote her, they are not about her; rather, they are reviews of the conference in which 
she participated. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 6 
In addition, none of these articles was accompanied by supporting evidence demonstrating that they 
were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. As it relates to Apple 
Daily (Taiwan) and Commercial Times, although the Petitioner provided total visits from SimilarWeb, 
the Petitioner did not provide evidence demonstrating the significance of the visits and comparative 
circulation or distribution figures in support of a claim that either of these publications would be 
considered major media consistent with this regulatory criterion. 7 Further, regarding Economic Daily 
News, the Petitioner has neither claimed nor provided evidence that this publication qualifies as major 
media in China. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that several reference letters, the Petitioner's citations, her co-authorship of 
two books, and her participation in professional conferences demonstrate her eligibility for this 
criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's reference letters, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of her research through recommendation letters praising her for her contributions, the 
authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, 
and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do not demonstrate that her 
research and findings have made the required impact in the field. 
6 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
For instance,~ G who teaches two courses with the Petitioner atl I 
University, and~--------~:who was on the Petitioner's doctoral thesis oral examination 
committee, discuss two of the articles authored by the Petitioner. We note that their letters contain 
multiple identical statements, suggesting that their language was not written independently. While we 
acknowledge that the authors have provided their support for this petition, it is unclear whether the 
letters reflect their independent observations and thus an informed and unbiased opinion of the 
Petitioner's work. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
land state that the ublished article ' 
'------------.=====================;..,..... verified that "organization-level 
commitment-base....__~----------------' to influence performance" and that 
"teamwork processes constitute an important mediating factor." They assert the article was valuable 
because it "helps team members to understand the team's mission, oals, [and] assessed strate ies." 
The further raise the novelt of the ublished article 
'-----......-.........ai~n'""'r'-=e:..=c..;;:o~m=:.m.ending that organizations focus on "how to use management strategies to 
1 ........................... .....___,_---,;:::=~an~d its effects in order to enhance the well-being of employees." Here, 
and I I did not explain how the aforementioned publications in journals have '---------' 
significantly influenced the field in a major way . 
.__ _______ __, the Petitioner's co-a .... u_t_h_o_r_an_d_d_o_c_to_r_a_l _ad_v_i_s_or_a~-----~U_n_iv_e_r_s_it.a.....,y, 
Taiwan rovides that the ublished article 
.__ ___________________________ __.' found that "HR practices, 
incentive compensation plans, performance appraisal systems, and face-to-face communication foster I I' I I speculated on the potential influence 
of the article, stating that it "could have some implications in other disciplines ... as every scientific 
and academic activity involves! I . . . . " While the letter shows promise in the 
Petitioner's work, it does not establish how her work already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, otential im acts. The significant nature of her work 
has yet to be determined or measured. Further raises the ori inalit of the ublished 
article ' 
" statin lication of the "ownership 
perspective" to'----~--~-----------~-------------' is an 
"innovative approach." He asserts that the Petitioner's w<r1< in human rsource management "has 
gained her national and international recognition." Again,~_----~_ did not articulate how the 
Petitioner's publications or findings have impacted the field. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
The letters considered above, solicited from the Petitioner's colleagues, primarily contain broad 
attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples 
of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
6 
subsequent work add value. 9 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.10 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. 
Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain 
how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the 
field. Simply stating that the work "has gained [the Petitioner] national and international recognition" 
or that it has potential to majorly impact the field in the future is not sufficient. Without additional 
detail explaining her accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters 
discussed above do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in her 
field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that her 11 articles have coIIectively garnered 257 citations at the 
time of filing. The Petitioner submitted her publication and citation record compiled from Google 
Scholar and other sources. The evidence reflects that her four highest cited articles received 105 (The 
International Journal of Human Resource Management) , 95 (International Journal of Information 
Management), 33 (International Journal of Iriformation Management), and 14 (Social Behavior and 
Personality An International Journal) citations, respectively. 11 But this evidence does not show that 
the impact of her work on the overaII field of human resources management or related fields rises to 
the level of an original contribution of major significance . Highly-cited publications alone are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as 
the number of citations for a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the 
impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the field. 12 
We acknowledge, however, that evidence that the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [her] contributions to the field of endeavor." 13 We also acknowledge that the Petitioner 
provided rankings which appear on the websites of several journals that have published her work. The 
Petitioner asserts that the journal ranking of those journals sufficiently establish their impact. The 
impact of a given journal is not persuasiv e evidence of the impact of every article published in that 
journal. A publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overaII 
citation rate; it does not show the influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's 
research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major significance in the field. That context 
must be provided by other evidence in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of her 
articles resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. 
11 The Petitioner's remaining 7 articles received between l and 5 citations, with 3 articles garnering no citations. 
12 We note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner 's entire body of published work, and claims that her 
overall citation rate is high, does not demonstrate that any specific work of hers is so widely cited and relied upon that it 
is considered to have made a major impact in her field. In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations 
to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination if the Director dete1mined she met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8. 
7 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced her field. 
Further, the record included published articles that cited to her work in support of her claim that other 
scientists have relied on her research. A review of those articles, though, does not show the 
significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to her work. 14 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an article entitled, I I 
_________ (Journal of Knowledge Management), in which the authors cited several times 
to her second-highest cited article (International Journal of Information Management). 15 However, 
the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other 125 papers 
cited in the article. Moreover, the paper does not indicate that the Petitioner's article is authoritative 
or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. While it is likely that the Petitioner's 
published research has incrementally advanced the research in her field, which is reasonably expected 
of research deemed worthy of publication, her publication record does not establish how she has 
generated widespread commentary or acceptance and application of her findings, nor does the 
evidence establish that her published studies have advanced the field in a significant way. As a result, 
the Petitioner has not shown how her published original research has made an impact that rises to the 
level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided evidence of her attendance and participation at conferences but did 
not demonstrate how they resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in a journal or presentation at 
a conference alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. Further the 
Petitioner has provided evidence that she is th,...e_c-o--a-u-t-h-or_o-f-th-e_b-o~ok ______ __, _____ __. 
and the co-editor and co-author of the book Althou h she 
provided her author royalty statement from the publisher of.__ ___________ ....,... __ _. 
the Petitioner has not shown that these books are widely used in the field or other evidence 
demonstrating that the inclusion of her work in these texts indicates it is of major significance to the 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Considered together, 
the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, 
and the reference letters from her colleagues , establishes that the Petitioner's published data and 
findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in her field. Therefore, she has not 
met this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 
2013) ( upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in 
the field as a whole). 
15 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that she commands a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in her field.16 The Petitioner initially 
provided an Individual Income Tax Statement from the National Taxation Bureau o±1 I indicating 
a 2018 combined gross income for the Petitioner andl lofNTD 3,445,009. However, 
this document does not indicate what the Petitioner's previous earnings were for that period. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided her salary income from www.web.sys.scu.edu.tw, indicating that 
her 2019 and 2018 earnings were, respectively, NTD 1,898,297 and NTD 1,598,297. The Petitioner 
also submitted a screenshot from www.jobsalary.com.tw, showing that for 201817 the average salary 
for "Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor, Ph.D." with experience "over 7 years" was 
$80,896. An additional screenshot from www.xe.com indicates that at the time of filing in February 
2020, $80,896 was equal to 2,426.887 TWD/NTD. Further, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
www.jobsalary.com.tw showing the average salary in 2019 for the position of "Human Resources 
Specialist with Ph.D." with "[m]ore than 7 years" experience was $54,225.18 The Petitioner, however, 
must demonstrate that she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to 
others in her field and not just a salary that is above the average salary. 19 In addition, the data appears 
to be based on national figures. The Petitioner did not provide independent evidence that would allow 
us to compare her foreign salary to that of others working in her occupation and geographic area in 
Taiwan. 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the aforementioned average salary information for an associate professor and 
human resources specialist constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. Without documentation 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or was significantly high in 
relation to others in the field, she has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. Further, we 
find that, although the Petitioner met the judging and scholarly articles criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), she did not establish that she meets the criteria 
relating to nationally or internationally recognized awards, published materials in major media, 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
17 The screenshot from Job Salary indicates the average salaries provided were for the period "January to December 107," 
and the record contains additional documentation from Holidays-Calendar.Net showing that the Taiwanese Minguo 
calendar for the year 107 corresponds to 2018 C.E. 
18 The screenshot indicates that the position requires the individual to "[p ]erform human resources research within the 
company or institutes." 
19 Regardless, even considering the average salary of an associate professor, the Petitioner's wages do not appear to be at 
the higher end of the scale. 
9 
original contributions, and high salary. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 21, 2024 In Re: 31200877 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an advanced computing researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy at 
least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Petitioner fulfilled two of the three claimed 
criteria. Specifically, the Director determined the Petitioner met judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but did not satisfy original 
contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues the Director's decision "well exceeds the proper 'preponderance of 
the evidence' standard" and did not "fully review and properly consider totality of evidence submitted 
for Original Contributions of Major Significance criterion." Specifically, the Petitioner contends the 
Director failed to correctly analyze his testimonial letters, publication record, citation history, notable 
citations by others, and patent record. 1 We have reviewed the Petitioner's initial submission, his 
response and additional documentation from the Director's request for evidence, and the Director's 
decision. We do not concur with the Petitioner's claims, and we adopt and affirm the Director's 
decision. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 
230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has 
been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. 
INS, 87 F .3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may 
adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized consideration " to the case). 
Here, the decision reflects the Director thoroughly reviewed the record and correctly and sufficiently 
articulated reasons why the evidence and eligibility claims did not satisfy the original contributions 
criterion. 
1 The Petitioner also submits new evidence on appeal. Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not consider if for the time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring 
all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining 
to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice ofthe required evidence and given 
a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
2 
For instance, the Director's decision discussed the Petitioner's submission of testimonial letters, 
including specifically discussing a sampling of them. Ultimately, the Director found that while the 
Petitioner's research contributed to the field, as is inherently the case ofresearch-type fields, the letters 
did not establish how those contributions have been majorly significant, as required by the regulation. 2 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance.3 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 4 
In this case, the letters lacked specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner's 
contributions have influence or impacted in a majorly significant manner or have somehow risen to 
level considered to be of major significance. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that his "research has clearly appeared in multiple top-tier, 
international journals and conferences." However, the Director specifically addressed this assertion 
by explaining the articles published in highly ranked journals or from reputable conference 
proceedings do not necessarily establish that the articles have been majorly significant in the field, nor 
are we persuaded that all articles appearing in highly esteemed journals are automatically considered 
to be of major significance in the field. 5 The issue for this criterion is not reputation of the journal or 
conference but whether the article is considered by the field to be of major significance. Moreover, a 
publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it 
does not show an author's influence or the impact ofresearch on the field or that every article published 
in a highly ranked journal inevitably indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the 
Petitioner has not established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates 
a contribution ofmajor significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. The number of articles 
published in highly ranked journals or reputable journal proceedings, however, may be a consideration 
and more appropriate for the final merits determination rather than at the initial evidentiary stage. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that "by comparing [his] citation record to Clarivate Analytics' 
Essential Science Indicators, we demonstrated that his papers consistently rank among the most cited 
Computer Science articles for their given publication years." Again, the Director specifically 
addressed this argument. The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates does not 
automatically establish majorly significant contributions in the field. 6 The issue for this criterion is 
whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (analysis under this criterion 
focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, significant contributions in the field). 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
5 For instance, the Petitioner did not explain how articles garnering no or little attention from the field demonstrate original 
contributions of major significance even if published in highly ranked journals. 
6 For example, according to the data from TnCites Essential Indicators, computer science papers published in 2022 receiving 
3 citations were in the top 10% and 12 citations were in the top 1%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with 
such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among 
the top 10% or 1 % of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
3 
where his citation rates rank among the averages of others in his field. A more appropriate analysis, 
for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that 
the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating 
evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that his articles at the time of filing, 
using InCites Essential Science Indicators methodology through citation numbers and percentiles, 
resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. 7 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends his "level of citations" "has exerted and maintained an impressive 
influence on the field of advanced computing." The Director determined the Petitioner's citation 
history did not show that any of his authored work constituted original contributions of major 
significance. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the 
citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For 
example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or how they 
compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. While the Petitioner 
asserts that his submission of sample articles by others who have cited to his work "illustrate how [he] 
has helped guide the work of his peers," the Petitioner did not show the significance of his research in 
the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 8 Although his citations are indicative that 
his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation 
numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 9 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that the Director "fail[ed] to take proper notice of [his] numerous patents 
and the evidence confirming their commercialization." The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's 
submission of evidence and indicated that "the record does not include documentary evidence of 
widespread commercial or industrial implementation of the Petitioner's patents, that it has been 
seminal, or that it otherwise equates to an original contribution of major significance in the field of 
advance computing as a whole." 10 Although the Petitioner references various letters, similar to our 
discussion above regarding testimonial letters, the letters confirm implementation but make vague, 
general indications without establishing how the patented technology has impacted or influenced the 
field in a major, significant manner. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, we concur with the 
Director's decision, concluding Petitioner has not shown he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
7 The Petitioner's documentation from Clarivate Analytics reflects that ·'[c]itation frequency is highly skewed, with many 
infrequently cited papers and relatively few highly cited papers," and "[c ]onsequently, citation rates should not be 
interpreted as representing the central tendency of the distribution." Thus, the Petitioner did not show the reliability of the 
figures. 
8 See 6 users Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
9 See 6 users Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example that published research provoking widespread 
commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and documentation that is has been highly cited relative 
to others' work in that field. may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
10 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (indicating that evidence that the person developed a patented 
technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's 
original contribution to the field). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies three categories of evidence. Therefore, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 11 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 21, 2024 In Re: 31223097 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. We summarily 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Because the scope of a motion is 
limited to the prior decision, we will only review the latest decision in these proceedings . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). We may grant motions that satisfy the aforementioned requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our November 2023 summary dismissal decision, we stated that the Petitioner's appeal did not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the Director's decision. 
Further, while the Petitioner indicated that a brief and/or additional evidence would be submitted to 
the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal, the record did not show that the AAO received 
those materials within that period. Instead, the Petitioner's motion indicates that its supplemental 
appeal brief was incorrectly sent to Tempe, Arizona rather than the AAO. Any brief and/or evidence 
submitted after filing the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, must be sent directly to the AAO 
as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(viii) and the filing instructions for the Form I-
290B. Because the AAO did not receive the supplemental brief and the Petitioner's appellate 
submission did not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact, we 
summarily dismissed the appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
On motion, the Petitioner presents a copy of its August 2023 supplemental brief and a FedEx tracking 
receipt showing that the brief was incorrectly sent to Tempe, Arizona rather than the AA0. 1 The 
Petitioner asks that we consider the arguments presented in its legal brief challenging the Director's 
June 2023 decision. 
The only decision properly before us on motion is our November 2023 appellate decision, and not the 
Director's June 2023 denial of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii), requiring that motions 
pertain to "the prior decision" or "the latest decision" which in this case is our November 2023 
decision. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that our summary dismissal decision was based on an 
incorrect application oflaw or users policy and that our decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
in the record at the time of the decision. In addition, the Petitioner has not offered new evidence or 
facts on motion to overcome the stated grounds for dismissal in our appellate decision. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts relevant to our appellate decision that would warrant 
reopening of the proceedings, nor has it shown that we erred as a matter of law or users policy. 
Consequently, we have no basis for reopening or reconsideration of our decision. Accordingly, the 
motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore remains 
dismissed, and the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 The tracking receipt shows a delivery date of August 3, 2023. 
2 U.S. Citizenship Non-Precedent Decision of the
and Immigration Administrative Appeals Office 
Services 
In Re: 23034491 Date: MAY 22, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification under the first-preference, immigrant visa category as a 
noncitizen of "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This category requires a noncitizen to demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim and to provide extensive documentation of their recognized 
achievements in the claimed field of extraordinary ability. Id. 
After initially granting the Petitioner's filing, the Director of the Texas Service Center revoked the 
petition's approval. The Director concluded that, contrary to the Act, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he: seeks to continue working in the United States as a singer; and has extraordinary 
ability in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director: lacked "good and sufficient 
cause" to revoke the petition's approval; impermissibly relied on evidence ofevents that occurred after 
the petition's approval; and "arbitrarily and capriciously" sought revocation about four years after the 
petition's approval. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofHo, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Director erred in finding insufficient evidence ofthe Petitioner's intent to 
continue his U.S. singing career and did not adequately explain his finding regarding the Petitioner's 
claimed extraordinary ability. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of extraordinary ability in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). If a petitioner meets either of these requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) determines whether the record establishes sustained national or international 
acclaim and achievements demonstrating a noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the 
very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596F.3d1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a 
two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a native and citizen ofUzbekistan, began to receive acclaim as a 
singer in 2004 when, at age 13, he won a Ukrainian singing competition. He won another singing 
contest in Russia in 2005 and released his first album in 2007 and his first music video in 2011. The 
following year, he finished as a finalist in a televised European songwriting competition and, in 2015, 
won a talent show on Russian TV. The Petitioner boasts a 3.5-octave vocal range and describes his 
singing style as "pop opera." 
The Petitioner stated that a U.S. entertainment agent contacted him, telling him that he could make 
him a star in this country. With the agent's support, the Petitioner came to the United States in 2016 
on a nonimmigrant work visa as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. See section 101(a)(l5)(O) of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(15)(O). He filed this immigrant visa petition in October 2017, and, by the 
end of that month, users approved it. But, in October 2021, after a users officer interviewed the 
Petitioner regarding his application for adjustment of status, the Director mailed the Petitioner a notice 
of intent to revoke (NOIR) the filing's grant. 
A. TheNOIR 
"[A ]t any time" before a petitioner obtains lawful permanent residence, USCIS may revoke a petition's 
approval for "good and sufficient cause." Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. Ifsupported by a 
record, a petition's erroneous approval justifies its revocation. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. at 590. 
Unless circumstances automatically revoke a petition's approval under 8 C.F.R. § 205.l(a)(3)(iii), 
users must notify a petitioner of intended revocation grounds and afford them a reasonable 
opportunity to respond with rebuttal evidence or argument. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b). USCIS properly 
issues a NOIR ifthe unrebutted and unexplained record at the time ofthe NOIR's issuance would have 
warranted the petition's denial. Matter ofEs time, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 451 (BIA 1987). The Agency 
may revoke a petition's approval if a petitioner's NOIR response does not overcome the stated 
revocation grounds. Id. at 451-52 
The Director based the Petitioner's NOIR on the following "issues:" 
• In December 2019, the Petitioner's agent told users that the Petitioner terminated their 
business agreement in early 2018, shortly after the Petitioner "failed" an audition for a singing 
competition on U.S. television. 
2 
• A successful U.S. music producer who invited the Petitioner to his studio told USCIS that he 
decided not to record or produce the Petitioner. He purportedly stated that he did not believe 
the Petitioner's "sound" matched the type of music he produces and that the Petitioner "might 
not be right for the U.S. market." 
• The Petitioner auditioned for the U.S. TV singing competition in 2018, and all three judges 
voted "No." 
• At the Petitioner's adjustment interview in September 2020, he told the USCIS officer that: 
his agreement with his agent ended in November 2017; he had not yet hired another agent; he 
last performed at a private function about nine months earlier; and he had worked as a food 
deliverer. 
In the NOIR, the Director found that the Petitioner meets at least three ofthe 10 preliminary , regulatory 
requirements for extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). But the NOIR asserts that the 
evidentiary issues discussed above do not demonstrate his intent to continue working in the United 
States as a singer or his claimed extraordinary ability in the field. 
B. The Timing of the Revocation 
The Petitioner contends that USCIS' revocation of his petition more than four years after its approval 
is "arbitrary and capricious ." He cites the following legal authority: 
[E]very tribunal, judicial or administrative, has some power to correct its own errors or 
otherwise to modify its judgment, decree, or error. In the administrative context, this 
right is generally limited to "a short period after the making of the decision and before 
an appeal has been taken or other rights vested." 
Gorbach v. Reno, 219 F.3d 1087, 1102 (9th Cir. 2000) (en bane) (Thomas , J., concurring) (citations 
omitted). "What is a short and reasonable period will vary with each case, but, absent unusual 
circumstances , the time period would be measured in weeks, not years." Caba Distrib. Co. v. Brady, 
821 F. Supp. 601 , 613, (N.D. Cal. 1992) (citation omitted). 
The Petitioner also notes that a U.S. district court applied this reasoning , in part, in a case involving a 
petition like his: an immigrant visa petition for a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. Doe I v. US. 
Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. , No. 20-cv-07517-BLF , 2021 WL 3402311 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 4, 2021). In Doe 
I, USCIS revoked the petition's approval more than three years after its grant. Id. , 2021 WL 3402311 
at *1. The court ordered the Department of Homeland Security to complete the proceeding's 
administrative record, finding that "it is reasonable, and non-speculative , for Plaintiffs to believe that 
there are documents in the record that shed light on why Defendants reversed their three-year-old 
decision on Doe 1's 1-140 Petition." Id. at *3. 
As the record indicates the Petitioner 's residence in New York, the Ninth Circuit cases that he cites do 
not bind us in this matter. Also, in another case, the Ninth Circuit suggested that section 205 of the 
Act does not limit the time within which USCIS may revoke a petition's approval. "The statute permits 
revocation 'at any time,' so there plainly was no time constraint on when the agency could revoke the 
approval." Herrera v. USCIS, 571 F.3d 881 , 886 (9th Cir. 2009) (affirming revocation ofan immigrant 
visa petition more than two years after its approval) . 
3 
Like the Ninth Circuit, the U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals for the Second Circuit, which has jurisdiction 
over New York, has ruled that a federal agency generally can reconsider a decision "only if it does so 
within a reasonable time period." Dun & Bradstreet Corp. Found. v. US. Postal Serv., 946 F.2d 189, 
193 (2d Cir. 1991) ( citation omitted) ( considering a dispute over a request for a postage refund). But 
we found no cases of revocations under section 205 of the Act, like the Petitioner's case, where the 
Second Circuit followed that reasoning. See Mantena v. Johnson, 809 F.3d 721 (2d Cir. 2015) 
(reviewing the revocation of an immigrant visa petition that occurred about six years after the filing's 
grant). 
Thus, in the absence ofcontrolling case law, we interpret the plain language of section 205 of the Act 
to allow USCIS to revoke an immigrant visa petition's approval "at any time" before a beneficiary 
obtains lawful permanent residence. The Petitioner's contrary argument is unavailing. 
C. Intent to Continue Working in the United States 
The evidentiary issues cited in the Director's NOIR do not support the finding that the Petitioner no 
longer intends to continue his U.S. singing career. 
In determining what is "good and sufficient cause" for the issuance of a notice of 
intention to revoke, we ask whether the evidence of record at the time the notice was 
issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would have warranted a denial based on the 
petitioner's failure to meet his or her burden of proof 
Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451. 
As the Petitioner argues, the Director did not consider the Petitioner's work as a food deliverer in the 
proper context. The Petitioner's statement at the 2020 adjustment interview suggests that he worked 
as food deliverer that year, the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic when few live-music 
performances occurred in the United States. See, e.g., August Brown, "The year the music died," Los 
Angeles Times, Dec. 11, 2020, www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/music/story/2020-12-l l/music­
covid-pandemic-nightclubs-2020 ( estimating that the COVID pandemic cost the U.S. music industry 
$9 billion in 2020). Thus, under the unusual circumstances ofa pandemic, the Petitioner's nine-month 
period without a performance and employment as a food deliverer in 2020 does not sufficiently 
indicate a lack of intent to continue his U.S. singing career after pandemic restrictions. Moreover, a 
beneficiary need not begin working pursuant to their approved immigrant visa petition until they 
obtain lawful permanent residence. Matter ofRajah, 25 I&N Dec. 127, 132-33 (BIA 2009) (citations 
omitted). 
Also, evidence of a noncitizen's intent to work in the United States in their field of extraordinary 
ability may include "a statement from the beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to 
continue his or her work in the United States." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Although disregarded by the 
Director, the Petitioner provided a November 2020 letter detailing his intent to continue working as a 
singer in the United States. The letter states that he terminated his former agent because the agent 
tried to make him sign what the Petitioner believes was an unfair contract that would have required 
him to work with the agent for nine years. He said his termination of their representation agreement 
angered the agent, who reportedly yelled at him: "Without me, you are nobody, and you will be nobody 
4 
here!" The Petitioner said the break with his agent shook his confidence. But he said he eventually 
recovered and "still believes there is great opportunity for [him] in the music business." 
The Director also disregarded other evidence of the Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S singing 
career. The Petitioner submitted a 2022 letter from his former agent, in which the agent conceded that 
he primarily booked the Petitioner for performances in Florida, which was "too small a market for 
him." The agent also stated that the music producer offered the Petitioner a recording deal but that 
the Petitioner -not the producer -declined the deal because he did not like the producer's focus on 
"pop" music. The agent also said that he told a users officer that "musicians like [the Petitioner] are 
only born once in a generation and he can bring an instrumental change to the music industry 
worldwide." He described the Petitioner as "a musician of global standard, he makes people happy, 
and he makes people smile by taking their breath away with his talents." 
Further, the Director did not address: an October 2020 letter from a Russian singer, stating her 
intention to collaborate with the Petitioner on a musical featuring the works of the classical composer 
Rachmaninoff; a November 2020 letter from another U.S. music producer, stating his plans to work 
with the Petitioner on an English-language album for the U.S. market; and an October 2020 contract 
for the Petitioner's performances at a restaurant three days a week over a 12-month 
period. Thus, the Director disregarded evidence that the Petitioner continued seeking to work as a 
singer in the United States. 
For the foregoing reasons, the record does not support the revocation of the petition's approval based 
on insufficient evidence ofthe Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S. singing career. We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Extraordinary Ability 
An NOIR "must include a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the proposed action, but 
also of the supporting evidence." Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452. users must also provide a 
petitioner with a written decision "that explains the specific reasons for the revocation." 8 e.F.R. 
§ 205 .2( c ). A conclusory statement supports neither a NOIR' s issuance nor revocation of a petition's 
approval. Matter ofArias, 19 I&N Dec. 568, 570 (BIA 1988). 
The Director found that the Petitioner "is not one of that small percentage who have risen to the top 
of the field of endeavor." But the decision does not explain how the evidentiary issues cited in the 
NOIR support that determination. The decision also does not explain why the petition's supporting 
evidence did not demonstrate the Petitioner's extraordinary ability as a singer. 
As the record does not sufficiently explain the Director's finding regarding the Petitioner's claimed 
extraordinary ability, we will remand the matter. On remand, the Director should reconsider the 
Petitioner's qualifications for the requested immigrant visa category. Ifthe Director believes that the 
Petitioner has not established his claimed extraordinary ability, the Director should issue a new NOIR 
explaining the evidentiary deficiency and allowing the Petitioner an opportunity to respond. 
Ifsupported by the record, a new NOIR may include any additional potential revocation grounds. The 
Director, however, must afford the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to respond to all issues raised 
5 
on remand. Upon receipt of a timely response, the Director should review the entire record and issue 
a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record includes sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's intent to continue his U.S. singing career. 
If the Director believes the Petitioner has not demonstrated extraordinary ability as a singer, the 
Director must notify him, explain why, and afford him an opportunity to respond. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 22, 2024 In Re: 31032107 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in culinary arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. Although the Director addressed criteria 
pertinent to the requested classification in a prior request for evidence (RFE), the Director addressed 
eligibility criteria for a separate classification in the decision denying the benefit request. The matter 
is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will remand the appeal. 
The Petitioner indicated on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, that he requested 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, as contemplated by section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act. The Petitioner did not indicate on the Form 1-140 that he requested classification as a member of 
the professions holding an advanced degree or an individual of exceptional ability in the sciences, arts 
or business, and a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement that is attached to this EB-2 
immigrant classification. See section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(2)(B)(i). 
In a prior RFE, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner requested classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. Furthermore, in the RFE the Director addressed eligibility criteria particular 
to the extraordinary ability classification. Nevertheless, in the decision the Director addressed whether 
the record satisfies the framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions in the precedent 
decision Matter ofDhanasar, 26 l&N Dec. 884 (AAO 2016), ultimately concluding that the Petitioner 
"is not eligible for, and does not merit, a national interest waiver as a matter of discretion ." However, 
the Director did not address whether the Petitioner is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability, as he requested on the Form T-140. Moreover, the record does not clarify why 
the Director addressed eligibility criteria other than that which the Petitioner requested. 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's misapplication of national interest waiver criteria to 
the Petitioner's request for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, asserting that it 
"demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of the distinct requirements for each classification." 
The Petitioner reasserts on appeal that he is eligible for the classification he requested. 
Because the Director did not address whether the record satisfies eligibility criteria for the 
classification the Petitioner requested when denying the benefit request, there is not a sufficient 
adverse decision for our adjudication on appeal. See generally 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i) (requiring 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to explain in writing the specific reasons for denying a 
benefit request). 
Based on the foregoing, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. The Director may 
request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination regarding whether the 
Petitioner qualifies for the requested classification. As such, we express no opinion regarding the 
ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17286250 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer of short films, commercials, and music videos, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1XA). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or in temational acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirements through receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award or meeting at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a producer of television commercials, short films and music video who co-founded I a a production firn1 originally based in I, in 2011. He states 
that he intends to continue working as a producer in the United States. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorfoundthatthePetitionermettwo oftheevidentiarycrite1ia 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
and his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
he also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director regarding the display and judge criteria, but conclude that the Petitioner 
also meets at least one additional criterion and thus the initial evidentiary requirement for this 
classification. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner served as a member of the jury for the National Association of 
Advertisers (ANDA) awards in two years, 2011 and 2012. These awards were given in several 
1 In response to our request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner resta tedhis intent to work as an executive producer in the 
United States for I in FL, and also included an updated letter from the manager of this company dated 
January 20, 2022 which states his intent to offer the Petitioner a position. However, a search of the Florida Department of 
State, Division of Corporations website (sunbiz.org) on March 10, 2022 revealed that the company was voluntarily 
dissolved on March 16, 2021 because it did not haveanyoperatingactivities, andwasthereforeincapable ofofforingajob 
to the Petitioner on the date of the letter. As the only evidenceofthePetitioner's intent to continue working in his field in 
the United States consists of a fraudulent letter, he would be required to overcome this issue in any further proceedings in 
this matter. 
2 
categories to advertising agencies and production companies. While a letter from ANDA also invited 
him to serve as a jury member in the technical categories for these awards in 2015, this does not 
establish that participated as a judge in that year. In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article 
published inl lin 2012 which names him as one of nine jury members for an exhibition, I lwhich featured creative works in advertising. This evidence establishes that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that their work in the field was displayed at an exhibition 
or showcase, and that the exhibition or showcase was artistic in nature. In support of his claim under 
this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence that the short film for which he is credited as 
the executive producer, was screened at several international film festivals, including the 2018 I I International Film Festival. He also served as a producer for the short filml I I which was screened at several film festivals in 2000. This evidence establishes that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he is a founding partner of land has served 
as its executive producer since 2011, which establishes his leading role for the company. Additional 
evidence shows thatthe companyreceivedseveralANDAawards atthe gold, silver, and bronze levels 
between 2012 and 2016 in recognition of the commercials it produced. It was also ranked as one of 
the top four production companies inl for three years, from 2013 to 2015, by I 
magazine. As such, the Petitioner has established that he performed in a leading role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As shown above, the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3) 
and has thus established that he meets the initial evidence requirement. While he asserts that he also 
meets additional criteria, we need not consider those claims. Rather, we will consider the evidence 
submitted in support of those additional criteria together with the entirety of the record when 
conducting a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner 
has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
As noted above, the record shows that the Petitioner is one of three co-founders and the executive 
producer of I a I video and film production firm which has also expanded into 
other markets inl I The company's work has been recognized through its receipt of 
several ANDA awards from 2012 through 2016, although the evidence indicates that only recipients 
of gold awards received statuettes, and the agency did not win the top "producer of the year" award in 
3 
any year. While the Petitioner claims that his previous employer, I also received several 
ANDA awards during his employment there as an associate executive producer, the letter from ANDA 
refers only to awards received by I and unlike the awards received by I which are 
documented by both media and copies of plaques, the record does not include independent 
documentary evidence of the awards claimed to have been received by I We also note that 
an article from the website ofl I covering the 2016 ANDA awards lists a total of 142 that were 
granted that year at the gold, silver, and bronze level, which indicates that these are considerably less 
exclusive than the top "best agency" and "best producer" awards granted by ANDA. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also submits new evidence regarding silver and bronze I awards 
received by I at the !International Festival in 2013, 2014 and 2015, which receives 
entries from advertising agencies in several countries in the region. 
Although this evidence does not show that the Petitioner personally received either ANDA or 
awards, as he is not named as a recipient by either of the awarding organizations, it does show that the 
work of the company which he founded and leads has been recognized at some level by national 
organizations inl I and I 12 
The record also shows thatl was named as one of the top four production companies in 
__ in 2013, 2014 and 2015 by I.magazine, which features short articles about each of 
the ranked companies in those annual rankings and includes quotes from the Petitioner in the article 
about his company. Evidence in the form of marketing materials from the publisher indicates that I is a monthly business magazine in with circulation of 18,000, primarily serving 
the larea, but the record does not include evidence which puts this circulation figure into 
perspective in the I I media market, and therefore does not show the extent to which these 
rankings were recognized on a national basis. This evidence shows that during this period, the 
company which the Petitioner founded and lead achieved some level of recognition as standing out 
from other production companies inl land that he was acknowledged as one of its leaders. 
We note, however, that these awards, rankings, and the resulting professional media attention for I I spanned only four years, a small portion of the Petitioner's career in this field, and the record 
does not include similar evidence before 2012 or after 2016 despite the petition being filed three years 
later. 
In addition to acting as a producer for television commercials, the record includes evidence of the 
Petitioner's work on short films and music videos. As discussed above, he is credited as a producer 
on the short film (2000), and as an executive producer on the short film 
(2018), both of which were screened at several film festivals. The evidence indicates that 
nominated for an award at thel ' I International Film Festival, and was named "Best I Film" at the I festival, and the IMDB pages for and l I show that they also received awards at other film festivals. As with the ANDA and 
awards, the evidence does not show that the Petitioner was named as a recipient of any of these awards. 
While we acknowledge the letter from ______ director o and the Petitioner's 
business partner, describing the Petitioner's important role on this film, the evidence does not show 
2 The Petitioner submitted evidence which appears to be art of his ortfolio, or that he prepared for purposes of this 
petition, which lists las being a finalist for an award for "Best TV CommerG,.iat..in, 
2010. While some reference letters mention the award, the record lacks evidence that either 
c===lrthe Petitionerreceived such an award. 
4 
that he received significant acclaim for this role. Also, although tbe oress releases for published 
in some media mention both the Petitioner an -I this self-created content does 
not reflect acclaim from others in the field. Ultimately, while these two short films produced by the 
Petitioner over his long career as a producer garnered attention in the industry and at film festivals, 
the record does not establish that this work helped to elevate his standing into one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
As for music videos, a letter from the founding member of the band I lbriefly describes the 
Petitioner's work on the video for the song I, the release of which in 2018 was 
covered by media in I I and elsewhere. Several of the articles contain an identical paragraph, 
apparently from a ress release, which describes I las "one of the main audiovisual production 
compames 1 and names the Petitioner as the executive producer. As with the press release 
material f for _ while these articles show that the video garnered some attention in the press, they 
do not demonstrate acclaim for the Petitioner from others in his field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he served as a producer for thel I series I I referring to 
articles apparently from I lmedia whichreportthad I will produce 
the third season of the series to be shot in I While reference letters also make mention of this 
project which was completed in 2019, there is no documentary evidence of the Petitioner's direct 
involvement. We further note that the evidence names other companies as producers of the show, and 
the record lacks evidence to show that either the Petitioner orl I were credited for its 
production. 
Fmiher evidence pe1iaining to the Petitioner's acclaim and standing within his field includes an 
interview of him which was published in I I in July 2013 in which he discusses the 
establishment and progress of I The previously noted quotes in the profiles of the production 
companies ranked by I published in 2013, 2014 and 2015, focus mainly onl I 
production statistics and business outlook rather than the Petitioner and his career, and thus do not 
reflect personal acclaim beyond recognition of his role for a distinguished production house. 
In addition, an autobiographical article by the Petitioner, which appeared on the I I website but is 
not dated, does not appear to be accompanied by a complete and accurate English translation based 
upon the structure and content of the original, and has not been demonstrated to have appeared in a 
major or professional medium. This evidence, considered together with the press releases about 
and other media which only mentions him in passing, verify that he was playing a leading role for a 
successful production house, but does not reflect sustained acclaim for the Petitioner as a producer. 
Turning to another type of evidence in the record, the Petitioner's service as a jury member for the 
2011 and 2012 ANDA awards, and his invitation to participate in this role for the 2015 ANDA awards, 
show that he was acknowledged as an expert in his field at the national level in that period. As with 
the company awards and media, however, it does not show that this recognition was sustained, or that 
he stood out from other production experts in the field who also served in such roles. 
5 
The record also includes reference letters in addition to those previously mentioned which mainl 
describe the Petitioner's roles in several projects.3 For example, the second letter from I lakal I discusses his work on a music video for the character ___ noting that 
the Petitioner took leading roles in the development of the character and production of a music video 
for the song 11 Jnotes that the video had more than 42,000 views on 
Y ouTube as of the date of the letter, September 3, 2020, and was briefly reviewed along with other 
new music on NPR's altl lpodcast. 
Another reference letter was submitted by I a founder of the I production 
company. He describes the Petitioner's work as a line producer for a television commercial for the I notting that it required a remote location, cameras mounted on a variety of equipment, 
and action stunts. I I also states that both he and his clients were pleased with the commercial 
and the Petitioner's leading role in its production. While these and other letters show thatthe Petitioner 
has led or participated in the successful production of a variety of projects, they do not establish that 
he received sustained national or international acclaim for this work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also reasserts his claim to a high salary compared to others in his field as 
evidence of his sustained acclaimed and position near the top of his field. The record includes several 
statements translated as "Statement of Miscellaneous Withholdings" for the years 2014-17, which the 
Petitioner describes as his "W-2s." While the terms and figures in these statements are not completelv 
explained, the statements include two columns labelled "Withholding Tax Base," one in J I land another in U.S. dollars, which appear to show the Petitioner's pre-tax earnings, or gross 
income, for the year. The figures are as follows: 
• 2014 
• 2015 
• 2016 
• 2017 
• 2018 $27,614 
$24,052 
$29,625 
$37,533 
$9,427 
For 2017 and 2018, the Petitioner also submitted forms titled "Form DPN-99025: Final Tax Return 
of Income and Payment for Individuals Residences and Inheritances." The figure matching the above 
form for 2017 appears on Line 22 ofPartE, Total Net Income, although for 2018 this figure is slightly 
lower than that shown on the above form. 
As proof of his earnings in I the Petitioner submitted a letter and figures from an accounting 
firm, although we note that no address or telephone number are provided on this letter. The attached 
tables show "List of payments received" from I andl I Productions for the 
years 2015-17, with the totals as follows: 
• 2015 
• 2016 
• 2017 B/.29,300 
B/.54,700 
B/.39,500 
3 All reference letters in the record were reviewed and considered, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
6 
Because th d has a 1 : 1 ex ch an ge rate with the U.S. dollar, the Petition er adds the figures 
from the documents showing his earnings in I and I claiming totals of $53,352 in 
2015, $84,325 in 2016 and $77,033 in 2017. 
For purposes of comparison to others in his field, the Petitioner initially submitted a letter from his 
accountant stating that he receives 150% of the daily rate of other executive producers of short films 
in I I appearing to base this statement upon his work with and other companies. 
However, this statement is not supported by a salary survey of the broader video and film production 
industry inl I Even if the other companies listed by the accountant are production companies 
and he has access to their financial data, given the small sample size and lack of supporting data, this 
statement cannot be considered as a reliable indicator of the average salaries of others in the 
Petitioner's field. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also submitted a letter from I who 
states that she is the President of the I IFilm and Video Industry in I I D 
indicates that this organization represents professionals in the audiovisual industry and works 
with the labor unions to set the wages for these professionals. Although she concedes that the 
organization does not negotiate wages for executive producers, she states that it has knowledge of 
these wages through budget reviews, and that it is "common" for an executive producer to earn $400 
or $500 per day. Further, she states that most executive producers inl I involved in creating 
commercials would earn between $10,000 and $20,000. As with the letter from the Petitioner's 
accountant, these statements are not supported by documentary evidence such as a salary survey, and 
they are also not accompanied by additional information about the chamber or its functions. 
I lappears to base her figures on casual observation rather than a systematic study of such 
salaries, and she does not provide relevant data such as the sample size her figures are based upon. As 
such, this evidence is not sufficient to establish a basis for comparison of the Petitioner's salary to 
those of other producers. 
The totality of this evidence shows that the Petitioner has enjoyed some success as an executive 
producer of commercials and other short films and co-founder of a production company, but that the 
acclaim stemming from that success was relatively short-lived. In addition, while his company 
enjoyed success and acclaim for a period, and his expertise was sought in the judging of other 
production professionals, the record does not establish that this elevated his standing as a producer to 
that of one of the small percentage at the top of the field. Accordingly, after a thorough review of the 
evidence in the record, the petition will remain denied. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinaty 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
7 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16897920 
Certification of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a physiatrist specialist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
In the latest decision, the Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that 
although the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not 
show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor.1 On October 27, 2021, the Director certified the 
decision to our office for review. The Petitioner has not submitted a legal brief on certification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will affirm the Director's denial 
of the petition. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 The Director denied the petition and dismissed the Petitioner's subsequentjoint motion to reopen and reconsider , and the 
matter came before us on appeal from the dismissal of the motions. We determined thatthe Director erroneously dismissed 
the motions as untimely filed. We, therefore , withdrew the Director's decision and remanded the matter for further 
consideration and entry of a new decision which, if adverse, was to be ce1tified to us for review. The Director's initial 
certified decision dated January 2021 did not contain, as required, a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) notifying the 
Petitionerofthe right to submit a brief to us within 30 days of the notice. 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectiv ely 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or herachievements in the field through a one-time achievement(thatis, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physi atrist speecializing in the treatment o with the use of 
He received his medical degree from the 
in 1998 and com leted his residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation at the _____________ in 2004. At the time of filing the petition in September 2018 
the Petitioner indicated he was employed as head of the h sical medicine and rehabilitation 
department at I I physiatrist at assistant 
professor of medical residents at the neurological rehabilitation unit at the I I director of the medical rehabilitation unitl I and consultant for the laboratories 
ll and I I on the use oc=Jin neurorehabilitation. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his certified decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met 
four of those criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04 .5 (h )(3 )(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5 (h)(3 )( vi), and leading or critical role under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Although we do not agree with the Director's decision regarding the 
published materials criterion, the record reflects that the Petitioner satisfies three of the evidentiary 
2 
criteria. 2 The documentation submitted indicates that the Petitioner has served as a judge for the 23rd 
Congress of the Latin American Medical Association for Rehabilitation in 2008 and published his 
research in journals, thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The record also 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has held a leading or critical role with his current employer I 
_____ and includes evidence of the hospital's distinguished reputation in the field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contested the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criteria 
related to lesser awards and memberships and asserted the Director did not consider the totality of 1he 
evidence in the record in making his determination. 3 Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence submitted in 
support of those criteria, in the context of the final merits dete1mination below. 4 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 1hat 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3 ); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 5 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within his field, authored scholarly articles, and 
performed in a leading role. We have also considered evidence related to an award he received during 
his residency at the his membership in associations, 
and published materials in ce1iain media. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
2 Regarding the published materials criterion, the record indicates that the Petitioner was interviewed regarding topics in 
chronic pain anddisa bility forthetelevisionprograms in 2012 and I tin 2014 which were 
broadcast on the I ltelevisionnetwork, and for the radio program in 2014. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide a transcription of the video or radio coverage demonstrating published material a bout him 
relating to his work. See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-
chapter-2 (providing guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
J..1.Q£5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that the television shows I and I 
or the radio program I represeyi a mai jor medium. Although the Petitioner provided general 
information about the television network in the issue is whetherthese shows are a major medium. 
3 The Director a !so determined that the Petitioner did not satisfytheclaim ed criteria re lated original contributions and high 
salary. On appeaL the Petitioner requested we "disregard" the evidence submitted under the original contributions criterion 
and consider it under the criterion related to scholarly articles. 
4 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory c1iteria in part one alone 
does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual ofextraordinaryability under 
section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act). 
5 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinaty 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 6 The record 
indicates that at the time of filing, the Petitioner had served as a tribunal member reviewing and 
selecting I for the 23rd Congress of the Latin American Medical Association for 
rehabilitation in 2008. Participating on a tribunal does not automatically 
demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim 
at the very top of his field. In evaluating this evidence in the final merits determination, the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner had performed as a juror at that conference. The Director determined 
that because invitations to peer review the work of others can be routine in the Petitioner's field, this 
evidence alone did not demonstrate that he is at the top of the field or otherwise establish his sustained 
national or international acclaim. We agree with the Director's determination. The record does not 
contain evidence that the nature of the peer review work he has performed is reserved for the small 
percentage at the very top of the field, such as evidence that he had reviewed an unusually large number 
of articles, received independent requests from a substantial number of journals, or served in an 
editorial position for a distinguished journal. 
The Petitioner claims he has completed other judging duties, such as serving on thesis review 
committees forthd in 2008 for the works titled 
'and 
" However, while the record contains invitations to 
participate in the judging, it lacks evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner completed those 
activities. 7 Moreover, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that the invitations to 
participate are indicative of sustained national or international acclaim or recognition of his 
accomplishments by others in the field. 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Regarding his publication history, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored two 
scholarly articles. The Petitioner emphasizes that he has presented his research and clinical findings 
at national and international conferences. The record does not show that conference presentation is a 
privilege reserved for those at the very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his publication record of two articles in a twenty-year span is consistent with having a career of 
acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 8 The Petitioner did not submit 
evidence showing the significance of the Petitioner's authorships or how his overall publications 
6 See also 6 US CIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative ofbeing one of that small percentage who have risen to th every top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 Sec 6 USCJS Policy Manual,supra,atF.2 appendix (providing an example ofpeerreviewingfora scholarly journaias 
evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien to do the review, accompanied by proof that the alien actually 
completed the review). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they 
were indicative oftheperson being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59, 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Without evidence that sets the 
Petitioner apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of publishing 
articles in prestigious journals, the Petitioner has not shown that his publications reflect being among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized over a period 
of time. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 
596 F. 3d at 1122. The Petitioner did not submit a citation history for his published work. Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national 
or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated a level of interest in his work representing attention at a level 
consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading or critical role, the Petitioner rovided letters of 
recommendation from several colleagues that summarized his work with 
and I I as well as his involvement as a consultant with the pharmaceutical companies I I andl ] 9 While the Director acknowledged evidence demonstrating the Petitioner has 
performed a leading or critical role with several organizations, he found that the record lacked evidence 
of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim. We agree with the Director's determination that the letters 
do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the 
overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For instance, in two letters, I I a neurologist and the Petitioner's co-author and 
colleague at the I provides that Petitioner's focus is on neurological patients 
who are disabled from medical conditions including Parkinson's disease, dystonia, multiple sclerosis, 
and stroke, and that he provided "medical treatment; local infiltrations, treatment with I I I lphysiotherapy, and occupational therapy." I a a physiatrist
1 indicates that the 
Petitioner was her mentor durin her fellowshi at the _________ where she studied 
th She asserts that the Petitioner is a specialist in the 
technique of "localization of motor points" in the _______ 
I a physiatrist and senior lecturer in the department of physical medicine and 
rehabilitation at thel I indicates she has worked with the Petitioner 
on educational lectures and training workshops for doctors regardjng the neurological pathologies that 
merit the use o:tc=J 10 She provides that at I the Petitioner utilized 
9 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 We note that I letter has not been properly translated. Any document in a foreign language must be 
5 
in patients with neurological disorders, developed and provided courses and 
workshops onl _ onsistent with initiatives of the I _of Social Security. 
Although the above letters describe the focus of the Petitioner's clinical work and mention his 
modalities and technique, they do not establish that his role as head of the rehabilitation department 
at garnered him acclaim outside the hospital. 
Similarly, in his above-referenced lettersJ I indicates the Petitioner's role as medical director 
of includes participation in therapeutic studies and national congresses on the topic of the 
treatment ofl l but the record does not show how his role withinl I 
garnered him acclaim outside of that institution. In sum, while the Petitioner's reference letters 
indicated his leading or critical role withl landl I they did not show 
how those roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from 
the greater field, or that the overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition, the record contains letters from several pharmaceutical companies describing the 
Petitioner's role as a consultant. I l Business Unit Manager a indicat t the 
conducting workshops o at I for patients and hospital staff. Petitioner has motivated many of his colleagues to learn more about the correct use o b 
I I of states that the Petitioner participated in several of the company's 
regional meetings as a speaker and consultant in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. I I of indicates that the Petitioner is responsible for the company'sl I 
product development department. Although the record shows that the Petitioner has been a consultant 
on the use o in neurorehabilitation for the laboratories I II I andl the letters 
from rep re sen tatives of those pharmaceutical companies do not address how the Petitioner 's consultant 
positions were leading or critical to these organizations as a whole or have resulted in his being 
recognized as among the small percentage of physiatrists in his field who have achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim as evidenced through extensive documentation. Further, although 
the Petitioner has been an assistant professor of medical residents at the I I I and a physiatrist at I the record does not contain evidence 
documenting his professional career with either of those organizations and that it has garnered him 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
Apart from the recommendation letters the record does not contain other independent evidence, such 
as news articles or other relevant materials, demonstrating that the field of physiatry has widely 
recognized the Petitioner's roles with his employers in a manner that evidences a "career of acclaimed 
work." The Petitioner's talents and his successes to date have garnered him increasing leadership 
responsibilities as evidenced by his current role with I I and I I 
However, the evidence does not show that his roles at these organizations are at a level that places him 
among "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Here, the translation does not contain a certification from the translator. Accordingly , this translation 
does not comply with therequirements of8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3) and has diminished probative value. 
6 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner has satisfied, we have considered additional documentation 
in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
With res ect to his recei t of awards, the record reflects that in 2004 the Petitioner's a er' 
was awarded a prize at the held by the Faculty of I a physiatrist and the Petitioner's co-author on that paper, confirms that the 
Petitioner received the award during his medical residency. The submitted evidence indicates that the 
competition was restricted to the medical institute's resident physicians, and it does not reflect that it 
is a national or internationally recognized award in the field as a whole or that the Petitioner garnered 
recognition for this award that extended beyond the institute. Further, the Petitioner did not establish 
that his 2004 receipt of a single award reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field, placing him 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 
59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record, therefore, has not shown the Petitioner's receipt of the 
award established or contributed to his sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membershi in associations in the field on a eal the Petitioner hi hlighted 
his membership in the since 
2005 and emphasized his service between 2011 and 2015 as a member of the board of directors of the 
Metropolitan Chapter of the organization in the position of secretary. He asserts thatthe Director erred 
in determining that this scientific society does not qualify as an association that requires its members 
to have outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We agree that the evidence does not establish that I requires its 
members to have outstanding achievements. 
The Petitioner provided two letters froml I board memberl I 
confirming that the Petitioner became an Active Member ot1 I in 2005 and served as a member 
of the board of directors of the Metropolitan Chapter of the organization in the osition of secretary 
between 2011 and 2015. The Petitioner also submitted two letters fro a physiatrist 
and past president of I who states that the Petitioner became a member of based upon 
his having "presented scientific works as a first step in his admission" and asserts that the Petitioner's 
membership was "granted by the society to him as an outstanding doctor," although these requirements 
are not stated elsewhere in the submitted materials and no explanation was provided regarding how 
these factors are weighed.11 The Petitioner submitted the 20081 I bylaws that indicate the 
organization has four categories of members: Founding Members, Honorary Members, Active 
Members, and Associate Members. The requirements for "Active" membership include attaining the 
medical specialty of physical medicine and rehabilitation, completing at least three years of approved 
11 We note that the record also contains recommendation letters from past president of I.I land 
pa st vice-president o _____ but these letters do not mention either the Petitioner's membership 
in the society orth membership requirements. 
7 
post-graduate training in physical medicine and rehabilitation, and having "recognized teaching or 
assistance activity." Even if we determined that those educational and work experience requirements 
can be deemed an "outstanding achievement," the Petitioner has not demonstrated how membership 
in the organization, or on the board of directors of its Metropolitan Chapter, reflects or results in 
national or international acclaim or is indicative of his placement among the small percentage of 
scientific researchers who have risen to the top of the field. 
As it relates to media coverage, as noted, the documentation submitted indicates the Petitioner was 
interviewed regarding topics inl for thel !network television 
programs in 2012 and l'in2014,andfortheradioprogramj I 
in 2014. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage, 
without any media reporting pertaining to him since 2014, is consistent with the sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of 
the Act. The Petitioner did not show how this overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success 
consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media 
reporting of approximately three interviews in a 20-year span reflects a career of acclaimed work in 
the field or meets a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required for 
lesser classifications. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 
1991 ). 
Finally, although the record reflects the Petitioner's income as a physician between August 2017 to 
July 2018, the record does not establish that he commands earnings commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show 
that his wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention 
based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not document his earnings beyond the period from August 201 7 to July 
2018, showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of his extraordinary ability. See 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm. 1994 ). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The petition will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The petition is denied. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 23, 2024 In Re: 31160633 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research associate, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate, 
as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among that small percentage 
at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner earned a postdoctoral degree in pathology in China. When he entered the United States 
in 2019, he conducted research at the Iand later joined 
as a postdoctoral fellow. Currently, the Petitioner stated he is a research associate conducting research 
in Dr. I I laboratory, who is an associate professor in the department of pathology atI J The Petitioner explained he is a "well-
established scientist with strong expertise in molecular biology, cell biology and medical research." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of documenting he 
satisfied at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 Specifically, the 
Director found that the Petitioner offered evidence ofhis participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers, 
his authorship of scholarly articles in the field in professional publications, and his original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied the three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv)-(vi). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international claim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of his endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if those 
achievements are sufficient to demonstrate their extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
While the Petitioner has offered documentation satisfying three of the ten initial evidence criteria, two 
of these criteria involve activities that appear to be routine among research scientists. The Petitioner's 
co-authorship and first authorship of scholarly articles meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
1 The Director concluded that the evidence did not show the Petitioner had received a one-time achievement (that is. a 
major, internationally recognized award) discussed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
challenge this finding. 
2 
204.5(h)(3)(vi), and his peer review of other scientists' manuscripts constitutes judging the work of 
others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director also concluded that the Petitioner has made 
original scientific contributions of major significance in his field. This evidence reflects that he is an 
accomplished researcher in his field. The record, however, does not contain evidence sufficient to 
show that he has risen to the very top of his field and has sustained national or international acclaim. 
We agree with the Director's determination that participation in the peer review process does not 
automatically support a conclusion that a researcher has achieved the recognition required for this 
classification. 
As relating to his service as a manuscript reviewer, we must evaluate the significance ofhis experience 
to determine if such evidence indicates the required level of acclaim and recognition for this highly 
restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.2 The Petitioner provided evidence of 
his service as a peer reviewer for several professional journals, including the following: Annals of 
Medicine, Journal of Leukocyte Biology, Open Medicine, BMC Bioinformatics, BioMed Research 
International, Frontiers in Immunology, Heliyon, Biomedicine & Pharmacotherapy, International 
Immunopharmacology, Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology, Gene Reports, Functional & 
Integrative Genomics, Discover Oncology, PeerJ Computer Science, and Frontiers in Pharmacology. 
The Petitioner claims he is distinguished from other researchers since he reviewed research 
manuscripts for 15 important international journals. Although the Petitioner indicated these journals 
as "important," he did not provide sufficient documentation regarding all the journals and the actual 
importance of them in his field of research. 
In response to the Director's notice of intent to deny, (NOID), the Petitioner submitted letters from 
three editors ofthree different journals explaining the process in selecting a peer reviewer. The editor­
in-chief of stated that she called on the Petitioner as a peer reviewer 
since he is an "expert in the field of immunology." The associate editor of the 
stated that "only scientists who have established an international 
reputation of excellence in the selected area of research are considered as potential reviewers." The 
editorial assistant for the stated that the Petitioner's appointment 
as a reviewer is a "reflection of his exceptional qualifications, marked by outstanding research 
accomplishments and an expanding international reputation." The Petitioner only submitted evidence 
ofthe peer review selection process ofthree ofthe journals for which he provided peer review services. 
As noted, one editor indicated that the Petitioner was selected for his international reputation of 
excellence while the other two editors indicated his selection because he is an "expert" and he has 
"expanding international reputation." Without sufficient evidence that sets the Petitioner apart from 
other researchers who are called on to perform peer review services in his field, he has not provided 
sufficient context to demonstrate that the nature and scope of his peer review work is indicative of his 
sustained national or international acclaim or indicative of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
2 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine 
whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and 
enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
3 
Likewise, publication of research does not automatically place a researcher or professor at the top of 
their field. Here, the Petitioner submitted his Google Scholar profile showing that he published 14 
research articles ( 4 first authored and 10 co-authored). As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent 
to the work of scientists, researchers and academics, the citation history or other evidence of the 
influence of his articles can be an indicator to determine the recognition that his work has had on the 
field and whether such recognition or influence has been sustained. For example, numerous 
independent citations of the Petitioner's work may provide solid evidence that his work has been 
recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final 
merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122. The Petitioner also 
stated that although his three most cited papers were co-authored, he also received citations for his 
first-author papers. The Petitioner did not provide evidence differentiating his publication rate from 
those of others in his field, or otherwise establish that it is reflective of one who is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the record indicates that, as of October 2023, the Petitioner's body of published work received 
960 total citations, with 893 citations since 2018. The Petitioner's most-cited articles was an article 
from 2017 (173 citations) and two articles from 2016 (123 and 103 citations). The evidence reveals 
that articles that the Petitioner authored alone have not received the same level of attention in the field 
as articles where he co-authored. For example, the google scholar printout notes that the Petitioner 
first author article that garnered the most citations was published in 2018 and it received 98 citations. 
The Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that his work has received some 
recognition in his field. However, he did not provide evidence demonstrating that the total rate of 
citations to his body of published work is high relative to others in the field or that the citations to his 
research represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of 
his field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(2) (stating that depending on the 
field and the comparative data a petitioner provides, such evidence may indicate a person's high 
overall standing in a given field). 
The Petitioner also stated that his most recent article, the final version of which was published in 2023, 
appeared in the Journal ofClinical Investigation, and that journal was ranked by Altmetric in the top 
5% of all research outputs. The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the attention score assigned 
by Altmetric to the Petitioner's paper published in the Journal of Clinical Investigation. According 
to the Altmetric website, it appears that these scores are calculated based on online attention derived 
from social media and mainstream news media. 3 According to its website, the attention scores 
reflected in the Altmetric data provided by the Petitioner are garnered in large part by mentions in 
various social media platforms such as news articles, blogs, Wikipedia, and other social media sites. 
It is important to point out that while Wikipedia is not the sole source used for score compilation, it 
nevertheless is highlighted as a significant source of data, and there are no assurances about the 
reliability of the content from Wikipedia, an open, user-edited internet site. 4 See Lamilem Badasa v. 
3 See https://help. altmetric. com/support/solutionslarticles/60002 3 3 311-how-is-the-altmetric-attention-score-calculated­
?_gl= 1*1tqnab 7*_ga *MTI1 NjM2Mjg2Mi4xNzE2MzE0NDA 1*_ga_CHDNWH4 YDX*MTcxNj QwNTMwMS4yLjEuMTcx 
N)QwNTMyOS4wLJAuMA. (last visited May 23, 2024). 
4 Online content from Wikipedia is subject to the following general disclaimer, "WTKTPEDTA MAKES NO GUARANTEE 
OF VALTDTTY. Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of 
individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows 
4 
Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). Here, the Petitioner does not explain or demonstrate 
that even very high attention in social media and mainstream news media is indicative of the subject 
research being of major significance to other scientists. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner's citation record and the inclusion of his article in the Journal of 
Clinical Investigation may be noteworthy, he did not demonstrate that his overall publication record 
demonstrates the required sustained national or international acclaim for this classification or reflects 
that he has reached the very top of his field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. 
With respect to the Petitioner's research activities, the Director observed that he had made original 
contributions to the field. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his contributions are of 
major significance to the field or that such contributions resulted in the Petitioner "having achieved 
sustained acclaim as one of the very top of the field of endeavor." The Petitioner does not directly 
address this determination on appeal. 
The Petitioner has shown that his work was valuable but the evidence, considered individually and 
collectively, does not establish that his contributions have been recognized at a level that elevates him 
to the top of his field or that they have resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim. In 
general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in 
journals, and point to the citations of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his 
work, they do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have been considered of such 
importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level of major significance required by this 
criterion. 5 
For example, a letter from Dr. I Ian associate professor in the department of medicine, director 
of the MD-PhD program, and senior associate dean for MD-PhD education at the I I I Istates that he is personally familiar with the Petitioner's work, and indicated 
that the Petitioner and "his colleagues" researched hypertension and inflammation and that their 
research provides "compelling evidence" of a medical link that can suggest a potential therapeutic 
strategy for the treatment of hypertension. Here, the author repeatedly asserts the research was 
performed by the Petitioner and his colleagues but does not further elaborate on how the Petitioner's 
achievements have been recognized at a level that places him at the very top of the field. 
The additional reference letters all discuss the Petitioner's research findings and that they contributed 
to the medical research community. Some authors of the reference letters also indicated that they 
referenced his research in their own work. While the Petitioner has earned significant praise from 
scientists in his field, the solicited letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor 
does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner's contributions 
in the medical field, primarily conducted while he was completing his graduate studies, have resulted 
anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been 
reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable infonnation. That is not 
to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However, 
Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given article may recently have 
been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the 
relevant fields." See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer (last visited May 23, 2024). 
5 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
in his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is more broadly recognized as being 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
The record, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability." Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, the record does not indicate a degree of recognition consistent with the sustained acclaim that 
the statute demands. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). Based on this 
finding, we need not consider the separate question of whether his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10094866 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestral musician, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner was a recipient of a major, internationally recognized award or had met at 
least three of ten evidentiary criteria, as required. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts her eligibility for the classification sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the assistant principal_l ___ ~lplayer for thd._ _____ __,l 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
relating to leadin or critical role. We will not disturb this conclusion. The record contains an offer 
letter and concert programs establishing that the Petitioner is the assistant principal 
'------~larer for that entjty i letter of recommendation from I I orchestra personnel 
manager for the : : describing her duties in that role, and news articles showing the I ~ distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser prizes or 
awards, membership, and judging. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion regarding 
1 USC IS records reflect that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification rese1ved for non immigrants of extraordinaiy 
ability. 
2 
the aitistic display c1iterion, and therefore, we consider that issue to be abandoned. 2 Afterreviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established she meets three of the 
regulatory criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially asserted eligibility for this criterion based upon a claim that she received a I I Award in 2008 and provided a certificate recognizing her participation as a musician 
on an album nominated for this award. 3 In response to the Director's subsequently issued request for 
evidence (RFE), 4 the Petitioner acknowledged that the album was nominated for, but did not win the 
.__ _____ _.I She resubmitted the certificate of recognition, referred to it as an award certificate, 
and explained that it "is specific in naming [her] individually for her role on the album ... which 
received a nomination forl I Award." She also included a 2008 article from National 
Public Radio entitled ~----------------~ describing the 2008 D 
.__ __ .....,......!nominees and asserting that the album in question "deserves several awards" and "shovJ.d....lli; 
considered the Best Classical Album." This article does not indicate that the album received theL_J 
I 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged this certificate and article, but found that the Petitioner did 
not meet this criterion as she failed to establish either that the album won ~ I or that she 
received ~ I as a member of the orchestra performing on this album. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts eligibility based upon her receipt of the aforementioned certificate. 
Although the Petitioner received this certificate recognizing her participation on the I I 
nominated album, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) provides that this award must be 
nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors (an award limited to competitors from a single 
institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 5 The Petitioner does 
not provide the criteria used to grant this certificate, evidence of its national or international 
significance, documentation of the limitations on competitors, or other materials demonstrating that 
the award certificate is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of orchestral music as 
required. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att ): Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4 711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 The Petitioner also submitted evidence rezau:liug the crite:a forreceiving thel lawardanddescribing the I !Academy, which confers thel _ I 
4 In this RFE, the Director requested additional evidence to establish that the Petitioner, either individually, or as patt of 
anorchestra,won al laward. 
5 See 6 USC!S Policy Manual F.2(8)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po !icy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa rt-f-c hapter-2 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner was a member of thd I that the symphony 
was an organization in her field of endeavor, and that her membership in the symphony was based 
upon an open audition judged by recognized experts in that field; however, the Director did not grant 
this criterion because the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that thel I 
required outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion as "[ e ]vidence was submitted to show 
that outstanding achievement was required to even be invited to audition" and that "further 
achievement was required (pe1formance dming the audition) under the careful judging eye of expert 
musician members." Upon review of all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusions with respect to this criterion. 
The Petitioner indicates, and letters in the record corroborate, that she won an open audition to become 
a member of thd I The Petitioner further asserts that both her selection to participate 
in this open audition and her selection as a member of thel I required outstanding 
achievements in the field of music. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the benefit 
sought. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. For the following reasons, the Petitioner has 
not met this burden. 
First, the Petitioner has not provided evidence sufficient to establish the requirements for participating 
in this open audition. Although in their letters both I I and I l senior vice president 
of artistic planning and production for thd l attest that outstanding achievements are 
required to audition for and be selected as a member of the , their letters do not 
specify what these achievements are. For example, ~-----.-~ explains in his letter that thel I I I puts out public notices inviting musicians to apply for its auditions and that "only those 
applicants with outstanding achievement in their educational background and performance history are 
invited" to audition. I I similarly indicates that "[ m ]embership is predicated upon ... 
meeting of minimum qualifications that include past outstanding achievement in the field and 
excelling in a high-pressure performance setting as judged by a panel of experts." Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), afJ'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Beyond using the language of the 
statute, the letters of I I and I I do not provide detailed examples of these 
outstanding achievements, and the Petitioner does not off er other mate1ial such as the open audition 
selection process, the criteria for selection as a member of the or other relevant 
documentation, doing so. Absent this evidence, we are unable to determine if the~ _____ __. 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, and accordingly, that the Petitioner's membership 
with this organization satisfies this criterion. 
4 
.__ ____ _.lalso states in her letter that membership in thel I is predicated upon 
"excelling in a high-pressure performance setting as judged by a panel of experts," but does not explain 
how excelling in this environment equals having outstanding achievements in the field of music. The 
record lacks other evidence establishing this. Without documentation demonstrating that surpassing 
others in a high-pressure performance constitutes an outstanding achievement in the field of orchestral 
music,I ts letter is insufficient to establish that thel I requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized expe1ts in the field 
of orchestral music. 
Regarding the docureut titled "Coder Ethical Audition Practices" (Code), it also is insufficient to 
demonstrate that the.__ _____ ~requires outstanding achievements of its members. First, the 
section "Conduct of Auditions," states that an audition committee should "at least include the initial 
screening of applicants." The Code does not indicate how this should be done, rather stating that "the 
existence and composition of an audition committee and the nature and extent of its participation in 
auditioning and hiring is determined locally." In addition, the Code does not include a provision 
requiring that audition applicants have outstanding achievements in the field of music in order to be 
invited for an audition. Moreover, the record does not contain evidence establishing that thel I I I has endorsed this code. This is relevant as the document indicates that only those endorsing 
this code "assert thereby that they will conduct their auditions in accordance with the principles 
aiticulated therein." Without evidence demonstrating that thel I has endorsed the 
Code, and establishing that the Code requires audition applicants to have outstanding achievements in 
the field of orchestral music, this document does not support the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that 
thel I requires outstanding achievements of those who it invites to audition, and 
therefore of its members. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to judging, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve 
this issue. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
me1its dete1mination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1theless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comis, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessa1yto the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 
n.7 (BI A 2015) (declining to reach a ltemative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
that even athletes perfmming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C .F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 10185052 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an anesthesiologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met 
only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiticles ). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits dete1mination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-pait review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an anesthesiologist and professor at thd~---~----~IMedical University. 
A. Evidentiary C1iteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these crite1ia, 
summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary crite1ia at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), relating to judging and to scholarly articles. We will not disturb this conclusion. The record 
reflects that the Petitioner served as a judge of posters at the0Annual Meeting of the Chinese 
Society of Anesthesiology. In addition, it shows that she has authored English language scholarly 
articles appearing in the International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and the Journal 
ofNeuroinflammation, among others.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to membership, 
miginal cont1ibutions, and leading or critical role. Afterreviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the regulatory 
criteria, as required. 
1 We note that in addition to the English language research articles referenced here, the record contains numerous foreign 
language atiicles. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion as she is a "Committee Member" of the Chinese 1ociety I 
of Anesthesiology (CIA), thelChinese Society oflntegrative Anesthesiology (CSIA), and the 
Medical Association an "elevated level of membership" for which she was chosen "by 
recognized national or international experts for her outstanding achievements in the field of 
anesthesiology." 
In his decision, the Director noted that the Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in many 
associations but concluded that she "provided no probative evidence that the associations require 
outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts" 
in her field. He further determined that "the committee memberships are roles for the association not 
memberships." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's determination that committee memberships are not 
memberships is an "error of law" and provides one of our non-precedent decisions in support of her 
asse1tion. This decision was not published as precedent, and therefore does not bind USCIS officers 
in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Accordingly, this 
decision is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Director's determination was an error of law, as 
asserted by the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner further argues that the Director erred because he concluded that the associations in 
which she is a member do not require their '"general members to have outstanding achievements." 
Here, the Petitioner does not accurately represent the Director's conclusions. As we noted above, the 
Director concluded that the record had not demonstrated that these organizations required outstanding 
achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in her field. 
Upon review, the documentation in the record supp01ts the Director's conclusion. 
The plain language of the criteriln reqlires the Petitioner to establish not only that she is a committee 
member of the CSA, CSIA, and but also that "recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields" must judge the Petitioner's "outstanding achievements," in order to become 
such a member. 2 Here the record does not include evidence establishing that "recognized national or 
international experts" judged her achievements as a basis for membership. For example, the Petitioner 
provides correspondence from the Chinese Medical Association (CMA)3 chairman referencing 
"A1ticle 31 of [CMA's] bylaws" which state that "national committee members" elect the committee 
members of the CSA but does not submit these bylaws. The record lacks other evidence regarding the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinaiy Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (mdicating that the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.) 
3 The record reflects that the CSA is a specialty society of the CMA. 
3 
national committee members, or otheiwise establishing whether these members are "recognized 
national or international experts" in the field of anesthesiology. 
With respect to her membership on various CSIA committees, the Petitioner offers documentation 
from CSIA's chairman noting that "[a]ccording to the fourth chapter of the "Measures for the 
Administration of the Professional Committee of Chinese Association oflntegrative Medicine,"4 "the 
Society elected the best members of the Society ... as committee members." As with the CSA, the 
record does not contain the document referenced by the Chairman nor does the Chairman identify the 
organization he calls "the Society." Even were we to assume that the Society is, in fact, CSIA, we 
note that the Chaitman indicates that CSIA is "composed of medical science and technology workers 
of integrated traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine." The record lacks evidence 
demonstrating that these members are "recognized national or international experts" in the field of 
anesthesiology. 
Fidally, lith regard to her membership onl I committees, the Petitioner includes a statement from 
th chai1man stating that I"[ c ]andlidate committee members shall be nominated, recommended 
and evaluated by experts from , specialized branches and municipal medical associations." 
However, as with the CSIA and CSA, the Petitioner does not submit evidence regarding these experts 
establishing whether they are recognized as national or international experts in her field. 
The Petitioner must document that she meets each element in the plain language of the criterion. 
Without evidence establishing that committee membership requires "recognized national or 
international experts" in the field of anesthesiology to have judged her outstanding achievements, she 
has not done so. Accordingly, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the originality of the Petitioner's work, but determined that 
the evidence did not establish its major significance in the field of anesthesiology. He noted 
specifically that she has "been a collaborator on scholarly published papers in the field" and that she 
has "presented [her] work at conferences," but concluded that she had not established the major 
significance of these presentations and papers in her field. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the conttibutions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otheiwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that her scholarly research articles are original in nature. 5 We first 
note that the record includes foreign language articles along with the English translations of their 
4 The Chaiiman states that CSIA is a subsidiaiy committee of the Chinese Association of lntegra tive Medicine (CAIM). 
5 We note the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the DiI·ector "ignored" her peer-reviewed presentations at various 
symposia and "her published atiicles subject to peer-review in scholarly medical journals." However, contraiy to her 
contention, his decision references them directly. 
4 
abstracts. However, the Petitioner does not provide a full English translation of the aiiicles 
themselves. 6 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language 
translation of these articles, we cannot meaningfully determine whether they are accurate and thus 
supp01i her claim that they are 01iginal conttibutions in the field of anesthesiology. Accordingly, these 
foreign language articles are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Notwithstanding this, the record also includes peer-reviewed English language research articles, 
presentations, patents, and research projects which constitute original cont1ibutions in her field. With 
respect to the research articles and presentations, the Petitioner contends on appeal that, as "[t ]he 
scientific peer-review process is recognized as the scientific method of provoking widespread 
commentary," these peer-reviewed publications and presentations "are probative of the significance 
of [her] contributions to her field of endeavor." She does not provide documentation corroborating 
her contention that the peer-review process is so recognized. Absent this evidence, the fact that the 
Petitioner's articles and presentations were subject to the peer-review process is not sufficient to 
establish that they were of major significance in the field of anesthesiology. 
In addition, the Petitioner asse1is that the Director did not account for evidence of independent citations 
to her research articles when determining if they were original contributions of major significance. 
She points to evidence demonstrating that the citation rates for her work had increased "from the time 
the 01iginal petition was submitted to the date of the RFE" and argues that this "clearly showed a high 
professional medical interest in her research and findings." The petitioner has the burden of proof to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit request and continuing 
until the final adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 
(Comm'r 1971) (providing that "Congress did not intend that a petition that was properly denied 
because the beneficiary was not at that time qualified be subsequently approved at a future date when 
the beneficia1y may become qualified under a new set of facts."). Without evidence showing how 
increasing citation rates after the date of filing demonstrate the major significance of her research prior 
to the filing of the petition, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
The Petitioner also claims that the Director failed to account for the "382 ... independent citations" to 
her work in determining whether it constitutes an original contribution of major significance. 7 The 
Petitioner initially submitted evidence from Scopus Author Identifier demonstrating that the 
Petitioner's research has been cited by other researchers a total of 339 times. 8 As it relates to the 
cumulative citations of her work, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made 
6 The Director noted in his decision that the Petitioner had submitted evidence related to this criterion that was "not in the 
English language" and "not accompanied by a certified English language translation in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b )" and advised the Petitioner "therefore this evidence cannot be considered probative." He did not identify the 
evidence to which he was referring. 
7On appeal, the Petitioner refers to evidence submitted with her response to the Director's RFE. As we note above, a 
petitioner must establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time of filing and continuing until the final adjudication. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. at 45, 49. Accordingly we will evaluate the evidence 
provided at the time of filing indicating that the Petitioner's work had received a total of3 39 citations. 
8 We note that this document included three foreign language articles not accompanied by full translations but that these 
articles received no citations and therefore are not included in this count. 
5 
miginal contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
identify her original contributions and explain why they are of major significance. Here, the Petitioner 
does not explain or provide evidence demonstrating how the cumulative number of citations of her 
authored aiiicles or findings establish her cont1ibutions of major significance in the field. Moreover, 
aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record rather than identifying 
which research the field considers to be majorly significant. 
The aforementioned documentation from Scopus Author Identtfier further demonstrates that her three 
highest cited English language articles received 137 (Anesthesiology), 67 (Neuropharmacology), and 
46 (Anesthesia and Analgesia) citations, respectively. Again, this c1ite1ion requires the Petitioner to 
establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Generally, 
citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written 
work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations for any of her published 
articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not 
articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to her articles. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that the citations to a particular article are unusually high in her field or how they compare 
to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although her citations indicate 
that her research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
number of citations to her individual aiiicles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 9 
The Petitioner further argues on appeal that the frequency with which her research has been 
downloaded demonstrates that it is of major significance in her field. 10 She contends that the Director 
was wrong to reach the opposite conclusion as, in her words, her "medical work could not be viewed 
as important since her research and medical information could be downloaded by general citizenry." 
The Petitioner claims instead that "only medical professionals ... would view or even [sic] capable of 
deciphering [the Petitioner's] important research materials." However, the record lacks evidence, and 
the Petitioner does not off er documentation on appeal, corroborating her assertion or otherwise 
establishing that only those in the field of anesthesiology are downloading her work. Even had she 
done so, the Petitioner does not submit documentation explaining the relevance of these downloads in 
the field of anesthesiology. For example, she does not provide evidence establishing that this number 
of downloads is unusually high in the field of anesthesiology or comparing this frequency to the 
number of times others have downloaded articles viewed as majorly significant in the field. As with 
citations, the number of downloads indicate that the research has received attention from others, but 
the Petitioner did not establish that the frequency with which these articles have been downloaded 
reflect their major significance in the field as a whole. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the Director failed to account for letters in the record which 
"described clearly how the petitioner's scientific and scholarly articles are both miginal and of major 
significance in the field." Upon review, while these letters generally describe the Petitioner's research 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor).) 
10 The record includes a document from the China Nationa I Knowledge Infrastructure database reflecting that her atiicles 
have been downloaded more than 1, 1000 times. 
6 
in the field of anesthesiology, they lack specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her work has had on the overall field.11 For exam le Director of the 
Department of Anesthesiology o ~------------~Medical College oti O I 
University of Science and Technology, summarizes the Petitioner's "early research on the subject of 
anesthesia, I I" noting that it has "achieved 
internationally recognized breakthroughs," but does not offer detailed examples of these 
breakthroughs. I 11 I of the Chinese Journal of 
Anesthesiology, notes "[the Petitioner's] academic papers ... have attracted many positive feedbacks 
from the industry" and that "[her] study on the effect o~ ~ rates has 
played a guiding role in scientific research in this field and has made a great contribution to Chinese 
clinical anesthesia," but does not specifically articulate how the Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion.12 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusmy statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Absent 
detailed examples of how the Petitioner's research has been of major significance in the field, the 
reference letters do not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
The reference letters also discuss the Petitioner's current research on the relationship between 
and discuss its future '---------------------,-------,...-------' significance. For example, in his correspondence states his belief that this research "will 
provide unprecedented new evidence for the b£ I anesthesia, 
which is of great scientific value and humanistic significance." '-----~ thel I of 
the Anesthesiology Department of th~ I Medical University, opines that "[the 
Petitioner's] scientific hypothesis based on pre-experimental results, is ve1y innovative" and states her 
belief that "the successful completion of this study will greatly contribute to the advancement of the 
.__ _______ _. field." Here, both authors speculate on the future significance of the Petitioner's 
work but do not provide detailed examples showing that the cunent impact of the Petitioner's research 
rises to a level of "major significance" as required.13 Therefore, these reference letters are insufficient 
to demonstrate that the Petitioner's research already qualifies as a conttibution of major significance 
in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the ma·or si nificance of her research is demonstrated b the 
a::lication of research from her project 
I ~- " 114 by other hospitals. The record reflects that this research bas been 
applied to projects canied out by thd I Hospital, thd I 
Medical University, among others. However, she does not provide evidence demonstrating how these 
11 While we discuss only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed each one in its entirety. 
12 See 6 USC JS Policy Manual F.2(B )(2 ), Appendix: Extra ordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
http s: I I www.uscis.gov/po licy-man ua 1/v o lum e-6-p a 1t-f-chapter-2. 
13 Id.; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regula toiy 
language but do not explain how an individual's contiibutions have akeady influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions ofmajorsignificance in the field.) 
14 This Petitioner references Appendix 2.3 of her RFE response in the appellate btief. In the letter accompanying her RFE 
response, she provides this desctiption of the evidence submitted therein. 
7 
hospitals' application of her research 1ises to the level of major significance in the field. For example, 
she does not submit evidence showing that this number of research applications is unusually high or 
otherwise reflects that her research has been widely implemented in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's patents, they demonstrate that the Petitioner has made original 
contributions in the field ofanesthesiology. However, this criterion also requires that they be of major 
significance in the field. To establish her patents' "major significance" the Petitioner provides a 
document titled "Proof of Patent Application" from the I I Hospital of I I 
indicating that it used one of the Petitioner's patented products in 206 of its cases. While this 
demonstrates the usefulness of her patented product to this hospital, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
that her original contributions have been of major significance to the field as a whole. 15 Here, she 
does not submit evidence showing how this hospital's use reflects the patent's major significance in 
the field. Moreover, the record lacks evidence demonstrating that her two additional patents have been 
used by others, implemented in the field, or otherwise are of major significance in the field. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner does not meet this c1iterion. 
Evidence that the alien has peiformed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner contends that she has served in a critical role forl !Medical 
~ersity ~ ~-As evidence of this, she points to a letter of recommendation fro.~ I 
L_J I of the I I the aforementioned letters of recommendation, and copies of 
awards she has received. 
In order to demonstrate that a petitioner served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "c1itical" if the petitioner's 
performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather 
the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 16 
In his letterJ I states that "[the Petitioner] ... has played a sustained critical role in the 
development of clinical anesthesiology in our hospital." He asserts that "[t]he clinical and scientific 
research level of the Department of Anesthesia ... and its influence on clinical anesthesia research have 
greatly improved in the medical field" as a result of the Petitioner's "active participation in the 
academic exchanges on anesthesiology at home and abroad." Whilel I discusses the Petitioner's 
research and conference activities, he does not provide detailed examples showing how her research 
has resulted in improving the Department of Anesthesia's influence in the medical field. I lalso 
states that the Petitioner "trained many young talents in the field of anesthesiology for our hospital" 
but does not indicate how this training has contributed to the outcomes ofl lor offer detailed 
examples demonstrating that it has done so. 
15 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because 
she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
16 See 6 USC!S Policy J1anualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po !icy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa ti-f-c hapter-2. 
8 
.__ __ ....,lalso notes that the hospital recognized the Petitioner' s contributions to the Department of 
Anesthesiology by awarding her "the title of "Advanced individual in scientific research for 50 years I I and "Third Prize for Advanced Individuals in Scientific 
Research ofYear2015," among others. The record contains copies of these awards which corroborate 
his assertion. We acknowledge that these awards demonstrate the Petitioner's importance to the 
hospital and the quality of her research. However,I I does not provide specific examples 
explaining how these awards for scientific research reflect the importance of the Petitioner's work to 
the outcomes of the hospital itself. Letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the 
significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful as long as the letters 
contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the petitioner's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. 17 Absent detailed information addressing how 
the instant Petitioner's role forl I was of significant importance to the outcome of that entity, 
.__ __ ---=-s .:.;le:.:.t.:.;te:.:.r..:;is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served in a critical role forl I 
Further,..___ _ __, s letter does not include an address, as required pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 204.5(g)(l). 
The remaining letters of recommendation, discussed above in the context of the original contribution 
criterion, lack detailed examples showing how the Petitioner contributed tol I in a manner that 
was critical to that organizations activities. I ! Director of the Department of Anesthesiology 
of thel !University , indicates that the graduate students whom the 
Petitioner has tutored "showed excellent anesthesiology theory research ability" but does not offer 
specific examples of how this contributed to the activities ofi I The remainder of the letters 
do not address the Petitioner's employment withl I As we note above, letters from individuals 
with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly 
helpful as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how 
the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical. 18 Absent a discussion 
of the Petitioner's contributions to I I or their importance to that entity, these letters are 
insufficient to show that she meets this criterion. 
In addition, the authors of this correspondence do not indicate, nor does the record demonstrate, that 
they currently or have in the past employed the Petitioner. We further note that the letters do not 
include the authors' full address. Accordingly, they are not in compliance with the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5 (g)(l) which provides, in relevant part, that "[e]vidence relating to qualifying 
experience or training shall be in the form ofletter(s) from current or former employer(s) or trainer(s) 
and shall include the name, address, and title of the writer. ... " For the aforementioned reasons, these 
letters are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
17 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F .2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence , 
h ttps: / /www. u sc is.gov/ po !icy-man ua 1/v o lum e-6-p a rt-f-chapter-2 
1s 1d. 
9 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordina1y ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17269097 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: May 25, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
as required. The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he would 
continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of 
the Director's decision, as well as two subsequent motions to reconsider. The matter is now before us 
on a third motion to reconsider . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I.LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence , then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at leastthree of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010)( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
conect fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision 
was based on an inconect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
policy, and (2) establish that the decision was inconect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We cannot grant a motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision," which in this case was our dismissal of the Petitioner's second motion to reconsider. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). Therefore, the issue before us is whether the Petitioner has established that our 
decision to dismiss that motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
The Petitioner is an athlete, instructor, referee, and judge in several martial arts disciplines and seeks to 
continue working as a martial arts instructor in the United States. The Director denied the petition after 
concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the initial evidentiaty criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal after determining, on de nova review, thatthe Petitioner satisfied only one of the three 
criteria he claimed to meet, related to judging the work ofothers in his field, at8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner then filed a motion to reconsider, which we also dismissed. We concluded that the 
Petitioner had not demonstrated that we inconectly applied the law or USCIS policy in determining that 
he did not meet the evidentiary criteria which relate to receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized awards and memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and (ii). 
In his second motion to reconsider, the Petitioner reasserted his claim that he satisfied the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) and (ii). He argued that we did not adhere to the preponderance of the evidence 
standard as required by agency policy and case law 1 and that we "unilaterally impose[ d] Petitioner to 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicy Manual.html, citing to Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 
(Comm'r 1989). 
2 
provide additional evidence." In dismissing the motion, we articulated again why the evidence the 
Petitioner submitted did not meet his burden to establish that he met all elements of the evidentiaty 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii). We emphasized that the submission ofrelevant evidence 
in support of a criterion does not automatically establish that a petitioner has met their burden of proof 
and demonstrated that all requirements have been met. We further determined that the Petitioner did 
not establish how our previous decisions had introduced novel evidentiary requirements beyond those 
included in the plain language of the regulatory criteria. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the awards and membership criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii) and contends that we did not adequately address his argument that 
we applied an incorrect standard in evaluating his eligibility for the requested classification. 
Specifically, the Petitioner argues that while we acknowledged the preponderance of the evidence 
standard in our most recent decision, we did not explain how we properly applied that standard in our 
previous decisions. He asserts that our appellate decision relied on '"vague statements" and failed to 
explain how his evidence was insufficient to meet his burden of proof. 
To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received 
prizes or awards, and that they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field 
of endeavor. The Petitioner has consistently claimed that he meets this criterion based on his receipt 
of a gold medal at thel !Martial Artsl I Championship held inl I The 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard requires that the evidence demonstrate that the claim is 
"probably true," where the determination of "truth" is made based on the factual circumstances of each 
individual case. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010) (quotingMatter of E-M-, 
20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm'r 1989)). The truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence 
alone but by its quality. Thus, in adjudicating the petition pursuant to the preponderance of the 
evidence standard, we must examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and 
credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine 
whether the fact to be proven is probably true. Id. 
As noted in our prior decisions, the record includes what appears to be an official event photograph of 
the Petitioner with a medal, on which he is identified as the I I Gold Medalist" at the I I Martial Artsl l Championship. The limited information provided by this 
document indicates that the competition was sponsored byl I I I This evidence has sufficient probative value to establish that the Petitioner was the recipient 
of this award and that the award is in his field of martial arts. The Petitioner has not explained, 
however, how this documentation establishes, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the medal he 
received is a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in his field. 
Neither the regulations nor USCIS policy guidance indicate that providing evidence of a petitioner's 
receipt of an award or prize is sufficient to meet their burden of proof to establish that the award is 
also a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in a given field. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for grantingthe prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
3 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 Based on this guidance, submission of evidence 
of a receipt of a petitioner's prize or award alone, without any context or information regarding the 
award's significance, is not necessarily sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof to meet all 
elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record does not contain any other evidence regarding thtj I Martial A1is~I ___ ___, 
Championship event, such as official results, a list of competitors, the event's entrance requirements 
or rules, media coverage of the event, or other information regarding the nature and scope of the event 
We cannot determine based on the name of this competition alone that any medal awardedatthe event 
is a nationally or intern~tionall} recognized prize or award. The Petitioner also submitted letters from 
two personal contacts i who mention his receipt of a gold medal at this event, but we did not 
find such letters to be probative of the national or international recognition of the prize in his field, as 
neither letter was from an individual who claimed any expertise in the martial aiis. For these reasons, 
we concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the medal he received at this event was a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
While the Petitioner continues to disagree with this determination, he has not established that we 
inconectly applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his prior motion to reconsider or that we 
failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence standard to our evaluation of the evidence submitted 
in support of the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Regarding the criterion relating to his membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the 
Petitioner asserts that we did not properly evaluate his evidence. In reference to our decision 
dismissing his second motion to reconsider, he states: 
The AAO now states that in particular [the Petitioner's] the [sic]~I _____ ___, 
Karate Association could not be considered because the record does not establish that 
membership in this organization requires outstanding achievement. However, the 
AAO states so right after acknowledging that the Central Executive Committee of the 
above organization has awarded honorary membership to [the Petitioner] precisely 
because of his "outstanding success and extraordinary achievement in the field of 
Martial Arts" .... The contradiction in the AAO' s reasoning could not be more evident 
and the criteria should have been considered met by [ the Petitioner]. 
The Petitioner further argues that the statements made in a letter from the secretary general of the I !Karate Association are sufficient to establish that his membership meets all elements 
of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and that we imposed novel evidentiaty 
requirements beyond those found in the plain language of the applicable regulation by determining 
that additional evidence was necessary. 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), a petitioner must demonstrate that the association 
in which they claim membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in that field. Here, we acknowledged the 
contents of the letter from the secretary general of the I I Karate Association and 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 6. 
4 
explained why it did not meet the Petitioner's burden to establish that he meets each element required 
by the plain language of the regulation. 
First, we noted that the referenced letter was not supported by independent evidence of this 
association's membership requirements. We observed that "the fact that the secretary general made a 
vague statement about the Petitioner's accomplishments in the field does not support a finding that all 
honorary members of the organization are required to have outstanding achievements." On motion, 
the Petitioner asserts that we improperly required that he establish not only that his membership was 
granted based on his outstanding achievements in the field, but also required him "to show that this 
was true for all members of the organization, which is evidence impossible to gather for applicants as 
it refers to other people." 
The Petitioner has misinterpreted the pmiion of our decision quoted above. It is the Petitioner's burden 
to establish that the association requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition of 
membership, a burden that can be met by fully documenting the association's formal membership 
requirements. We did not impose arequirementthatthe Petitioner gather evidence of the outstanding 
achievements of other honorary members of the same association. In this case, the letter from the 
secretary general of thel I Karate Association refers to portions of the association's 
constitution which presumably discuss its membership requirements. The relevant pmiions of this 
constitution have not been provided for review, the secretary general's letter does not clearly state 
what those membership requirements are, and the record lacks any other evidence related to the 
association's membership requirements. For these reasons, we determined that the letter did not meet 
the Petitioner's burden to establish that the association requires honorary members to demonstrate 
outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Second, we acknowledged that the letter from thd !Karate Association's secretary 
general indicates that the Petitioner's honorary membership was approved by the organization's 
Central Executive Committee. However, we emphasized thatthis statement was not sufficientto show 
that the members of the committee who are responsible for judging or approving honorary membership 
are recognized national or international experts in the field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not acknowledge or address this determination on motion and has not established 
how we misapplied the law or USCIS policy by requiring that he satisfy all elements of the criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that we imposed novel evidentiaiy 
requirements with respect to this criterion, that we failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard, or that we otherwise incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his prior 
motion to reconsider. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that we have refused to address the Director's determination that he did 
not provide evidence that he will continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States, as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). In our most recent decision dismissing his second motion, and in 
our two prior decisions, we noted that we need not address that issue since the Petitioner had not 
established that he met the initial evidentiary requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and therefore 
could not establish his eligibility for the requested classification. The Petitioner does not argue that 
5 
we misapplied the law or USCIS policy by reserving this issue. For the reasons discussed above, we 
will once again reserve this issue. 3 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration of our prior decision. Accordingly, the 
motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 Sec INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessa1yto the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 10767610 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had received a one-time major award or that he met any of the alternate 
regulatory criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate internationa l 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is anl I engineer who previously was employed withl I I and ...:I ======!....:.::!2.=-:,1 The record reflects that he holds a m .... a_s-te_r_o_f_s_c-ie-n-ce-in---,.l-----1 
eng1eering I from thPI m , , 1 l'\nd a master of business administration 
from University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner had not met any of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to published material, judging, original contributions, scholarly articles, artistic 
display, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), and (viii), 
respectively. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not 
satisfy at least three of these criterion, as required. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner again claims his eligibility for this criterion through numerous articles 
already in the record. First, he asserts that a Bimco Bulletin article satisfies this criterion becaµs.cit, 
features an in-depth discussion about a newl I system that he developed foL_J 
However, the record does not contain evidence sufficient, by the preponderance of the evidence, to 
corroborate the Petitioner's assertion that he developed this system, and that the article is about him 
and his work foQ As the Petitioner acknowledges on appeal, this article does not reference the 
Petitioner by name, nor it does discuss the Petitioner's contribution~e development ote=J's ---------~I system. Instead, another document from L_J in the record notes the 
2 
Petitioner's role as a project manager in ensuring that "the project was successfully delivered with 
low-maintenance costs" among others but does not attribute development to the Petitioner. The 
Petitioner does not offer evidence explaining how the delivery of these systems equates to his 
development of them, as asse1ied. Fmiher, a letter froml I D's chief executive officer, 
referenced by the Petitioner in the appellate bri~aises the Petitioner's "technical and functional 
gifts" and notes that these gifts play a "key role inL_J s research and development efforts." However, I I does not fmiher desc1ibe how the Petitioner played a 'kel role' or identify these efforts, 
and does not establish that the Petitioner developed theisystem. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the published material should be about the petitioner, relating to his work in the field, not 
just about his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 1 As this aiiicle 
is about his former employer, and absent evidence sufficient to corroborate the Petitioner's assertion 
that he led the development of the.__ _______ __. system referenced in the article, this 
document does not satisfy the c1iterion. 
Next, the Petitioner arJues tlat a U.S. Coast Guard Forum article, aboutc=Js work with the U.S. 
Coast Guard to have regulation issued and how□ benefited from this rule, satisfies this 
criterion. In the appellate brief, the Petitioner asserts that benefited because the company is "one 
of very few companies, thanks to [the Petitioner], who is able to sell this type of technology." He 
therefore argues that this article is about him related to his work. As discussed above, the record lacks 
evidence sufficient to establish that the Petitioner is directly responsible for the development of1 I I I systems forc::J....1:!ie record further lacks evidence establishing the Petitioner's role 
in the publication of this rule orl__Js ability to sell this technology. In order to satisfy this crite1ion, 
the published material should be about the petitioner, relating to his work in the field, not just about 
his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 2 Here the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence sufficient to cmrnborate his asse1iion that he is directly responsible for D's 
ability to sell its.__ _______ ~ system, and that this article is about him rather than his 
employer. Accordingly he has not shown that this article meets this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner refers to a Florida Tech TODAYarticle as evidence ofhjf eligibility. 
This article, is a discussion wit~'-----~- a professor 
of.__ ________ _. enginee1ing at about his work testing and evaluating! I 
coatings. Although the article includes a photograph of the Petitioner with the professor, the article 
does not discuss the Petitioner's work in the field and it is not about the Petitioner. Articles that do 
not pertain to a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that "he was the subject of multiple articles published by Foreign 
Policy and ABC7! News [sic]." The record includes an article published in Foreign Policy and is about 
the Petitioner related to his work. However, this criterion requires not only that the published material 
be about the Petitioner and related to his work but also that it be in a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. Here the Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as on-line 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordina1y Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
3 
circulation statistics or other relevant data, for Foreign Policy to show that its circulation is high 
relative to others, or information about this publication, to show that it is a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major media, as required. 3 
The ABC7 News document referenced by the Petitioner also is about him and related to his work. 
However, the Petitioner also provided a printout from www.abcnewswire.com indicating that this 
article is a press release published byl I a company owned by the Petitioner according to 
registration documents in the record. This ress release directs readers to a website 
with the Petitioner's phone number, the text 
and a button reading "Book an 
Appointment."4 Therefore, it appears that this evidence is designed to promote the Petitioner's 
services. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the petitioner's products or promoting 
his or her services are not generally considered to be published mate1ial about them. 5 Even if we view 
this document in the most favorable light, the Petitioner does not provide information about or on-line 
circulation statistics forABC7 News to show that its circulation is high relative to others, demonstrating 
that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major media as required. 6 
Finally, the Petitioner states that he was "interviewed by Warlock Asylum International News which 
published a full featured interview and Q&A" about him and his expe1tise. The record reflects that 
this interview was published in November 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Here, the instant petition was filed in March 2019. As 
this material was published afterthe filing date, it does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts eligibility for this criterion as he "regularly reviews the work of his 
peers and the employees he oversees" and notes that "[ c ]opies of employee reviews and training 
provided by [the Petitioner] as well as work product reviews are enclosed." Upon review, we note 
that the record does not contain emP,lo ee reviews. The record includes a PowerPoint slide deck 
att1ibuted to the Petitioner entitled ~---------------------~ but 
the Petitioner does not provide the duties he performed as a trainer or offerother evidence establishing 
that this training equates to his participation as a judge of the work of others his field. 
The record also contains several photographs of the Petitioner inspecting equipment or in front of 
vessels with captions such as "Judging their work and teaching them the professional regulatory 
methods," and "Judging the work and training them with the new regulatory mate1ials." Repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
3 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 See ~----<last visited May 26, 2021) and incorporated into the record by reference. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manua/F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 Id. 
4 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). The Petitioner does not identify 
whose work he is judging, list the duties he performed as a judge, or offer evidence allowing us to 
determine if the actions shown in these photographs satisfy this criterion. Without this information, 
these photographs are not sufficient to show that he meets this c1iterion. 
The record also includes certificates of compliance and invoices signed by the Petitioner as project 
manager, a copy of a technical agreement bearing his signature, and a PowerPoint presentation 
authored by the Petitioner in his capacity as a project manager forl I The PowerPoint 
presentation explains that as a project manager, the Petitioner "contacted vendors," "negotiated the 
pricing and selected the vendors who can complete international shipping," and has "successfully 
completed many equipment installations." However, the Petitioner does not submit evidence showing 
how these actions equate to the participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. Further, as 
noted by the Director in his decision, the phrase "a judge" implies a f mmal designation in a judging 
capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner 
does not submit evidence indicating that his employer designated him '"as a judge" in his capacity as 
a project manager or otherwise establishing that his role as such is consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. Without further documentation, this evidence is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media."7 The Petitioner asserts 
eli ibilit for this criterion based on his authorship of the book entitled.I . I 
and published byl I in 2008, and 
through the publication of '~-----------------------~8 
Although the Petitioner does not identify this evidence by title, we note that in his decision the Director 
indicated that the Petitioner previously submitted four books entitled I I 
I . 11 l I I andl I to demonstrate 
his eligibility for this criterion. 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how authorship of these books qualify as scholarly articles in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. As books may be published independently or self-published, mere publication does not 
establish that a book is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Moreover, 
scholarly articles should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. 9 However, the Petitioner does not offer evidence showing that these 
books were w1itten for "learned" individuals and contain the characteristics of a scholarly aiticle. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. ~-----~ ~---~ 
8 We note that the Petitioner also claims that "two other papers published ml I and I I,,, satisfy 
this criterion but does not indicate where in the record these papers are found, or otherwise identify them. Accordingly 
we do not address whether they meet this criterion. 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinaty Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licy-ma nua 1/vo !um e-6-pa rt-f-chapter-2. 
5 
Even if the Petitioner's books equate to scholarly articles, he did not submit any documentary evidence 
to establish that these books are professional or major trade publications or other major media. He did 
not, for instance, provide statistics or other evidence establishing the major standing of these books.10 
In addition the Petitioner claims this work "led to further publications such as Market Watch: The 
Wall Street Journal, Yahoo! News The Ritz Herald, Daily Country News, Foreign Policy and many 
more." With regard to the Foreign Policy article, as we note above, the record lacks evidence 
demonstrating that it is a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media. 
Pertaining to the remainder of the publications identified by the Petitioner on appeal, we note that 
these articles appeared in these publications in October and November 2019. However, the Petitioner 
filed the instant petition in March 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements 
for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Documentation published after the filing date is not sufficient 
to satisfy this criterion. 
The Petitioner, therefore, has not provided documentation sufficient to meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien '.s work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility for this criterion through his presentations at scholarly 
exhibitions. He argues that his presentations are comparable to a display of work at artistic exhibition, 
and therefore evidence establishing that he has presented at such scholarly exhibitions should be 
"admissible to satisfy the 'display' criterion under the 'comparable evidence' regulation." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to the petitioner's occupation. A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3). Here, 
the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot off er evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. The fact that the Petitioner did not submit documentation that he 
fulfills at least three is not evidence that an engineer could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
did not show that he fulfills this criterion through the submission of comparable evidence. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the four criteria relating to published 
material, judging, scholarly articles, and artistic display. Although he claims to meet two additional 
criteria on appeal, relating to contributions of major significance and to performance of a leading or 
10 See 6 USCIS PolicyJ,1anualF.2(B)(2), Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2, (providing that evidence of professional or major trade 
publications or in othermajormedia publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and the intended audience). 
6 
c1itical role, we need not reach these additional issues. As the Petitioner cannot meet the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 11 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten c1ite1ia. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R.Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BI A 2015) (declining to reach a ltemative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16169358 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sports agent, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, al lcoach advisor, as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that: ( 1) the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required; 
and (2) the Beneficiary will continue to work in his area of expertise. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Thf Renefjcjarywas a professionalc=]player from 1990 to 2003, playing forlocal teams and, in 1995, 
the_ !National Team. The Beneficir ultiiately played for 23 different teams id I Europe, 
and the Middle East, returning to his nativ upon his retirement. At the time the Petitioner filed 
~etition, the Beneficiary was employed as an advisor and head coach for I I 
L__J and as a I I coach advisor for I I a youth team in the._l ______ ____._ 
League. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted an undated letter from 
I hffering the Beneficiary a foll-time position as al I coach. The Petitioner has not shown 
that the Beneficiary's position with I I lasted beyond the 2019 season; local newspaper 
coverage indicated that the appointment was for the one season. 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary "advices [sic] and coaches for I I which use his name 
and knowledge to attract investors." The Beneficiary entered the United States as a B-1 nonimmigrant 
tourist, and later changed status to O-lA nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability in athletics. We 
acknowledge that O-lA nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the record 
of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, the Petitioner must submit evidence to satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
2 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that its evidence meets six of the above criteria. The Petitioner does not contest 
the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (v), and therefore we consider that issue 
to be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner's evidence is sufficient to meet, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, at least three criteria, numbered (i), (ii), and (iii). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner shows that the Beneficiary played for thel I team I I when, in 1996, that team 
won the.__ _______ __. The Petitioner has established the significance of this prize. For example, 
according to an NBC Sports article in the record I I I f Evidence regarding other prizes and awards is less 
persuasive, and the Petitioner has submitted evidence of various second-place finishes without 
establishing that the runners-up received any actual prizes or awards, but the evidence about thel I I I is sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
From the submitted evidence, we conclude that the Beneficiary's membership in thel I national 
team is a qualifying membership, or comparable to such membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Much of the record consists of newspaper articles, mostly published between 1989 and 2003. At least 
some of these publications qualify as major media. The Director discounted these materials because "the 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
articles are not about the beneficiary and his work as~ lcoach." Nevertheless, many of the articles 
are primarily about the Beneficiary and his work as al lplayer. The distinction between a player and 
a coach is an important, but separate, issue, which we will discuss further below. 
The above conclusions suffice to show that the Petitioner's evidence meets at least three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria would not change the outcome 
of this appeal, but all of the evidence submitted to satisfy the remaining criteria has been considered 
in the context of the final merits determination discussed below.2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
established eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary is eligible for classification "as a player of extraordinary 
ability," and most of the submitted evidence concerns the Beneficiary's career as a player. The 
Beneficiary was the subject of frequent newspaper coverage in the 1990s, and many of these stories 
indicated that the Beneficiary was responsible for winning matches that were important for the various ~ for which he played. With further support, these materials might have established that the 
Beneficiary earned national acclaim as al I player in the 1990s. As it stands, much of the evidence 
lacks necessary context. For instance, the record shows that the Beneficiary signed a four-year contract 
with aD for $600,000 plus substantial benefits, but he left thatOwithin about 18 months, and 
ultimately played for 23 teams during his career. The record lacks sufficient information to show whether 
2 One point, however, bears mentioning. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) calls for evidence of the beneficiary's 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for 
which classification is sought. When the Petitioner filed the petition in December 2018, she did not claim that the Beneficiary 
had acted as a judge in this manner She added this c'.aim in her February 2020 response to the RFE, and submitted a letter 
from the chief executive officer ofl I who stated that the Beneficiary's work there involved judging the 
"technical ability" and "tactical ability" of prospective. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that this letter does not establish work as a judge prior to the petition's December 2018 
filing date. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), which requires the Petitioner to meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion, and purports to quote from the letter, stating that the 
Beneficiary had worked withl ~'since August of 2018 as ~ I Coach helping our staff coach teams and identify 
new talent." This statement would place the Beneficiary's judging activity before Decemb~. The letter, however, does 
not contain this passage. It states that the Beneficiary "has worked with us since 2019 as aL__Jcoach Advisor helping our 
staff coach teams and identify new talent" ( emphasis added). Previously, counsel had accurately quoted this same sentence 
from the letter. Counsel also specifically identifies the letter as "RFE Response, Exhibit G," demonstrating that there is no 
confusion as to which letter counsel is quoting. 
3 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
these frequent moves were the result of increasing demand for his services by the most prominent teams, 
or other reasons not inherently reflective of acclaim. 
The key issue in this proceeding, and the reason underlying the Director's denial of the petition, is that 
the Beneficiary is no longer a professional I I player, and does not seek to enter the United States in 
order to play at a professional level. These undisputed facts led the Director to conclude that the 
Beneficiary does not seek to enter the United States to continue working in his area of expertise, and 
colored the Director's conclusions about the initial evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Whatever recognition the Beneficiary may have earned as a player in the 1990s, the statute requires 
sustained national or international acclaim; evidence of past acclaim cannot suffice to establish eligibility. 
But the Beneficiary retired from playing about 15 years before the filing of the petition. The Petitioner 
has submitted substantially less published material about the Beneficiary since that time, much of which 
is nostalgic or retrospective in nature rather than indicating that the Beneficiary's continued activities 
attract news coverage in their own right. For example, a 2018 article from thd I states 
that the Beneficiary "was well-known in the 90s." As early as 2001, before the Beneficiary retired, an 
article in another paper indicated that he "wants to return [to] the glories he achieved in the early 1990s." 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites two unpublished appellate decisions from 2016. These decisions have no 
binding authority as precedent, but there are also factors in both decisions that distinguish them from the 
case at hand. First, the Petitioner cites Matter of K-S-Y-, ID# 14269 (AAO Mar. 9, 2016), in which we 
stated: "We may conclude that coaching is within an athlete's area of expertise under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act if (1) the individual's national or international athletic acclaim was recent, 
and (2) he or she sustained that acclaim upon transition to coaching at a national level." Id. at 6. In 
that case, the Petitioner "filed the ... petition ... within seven months of his last major competitive 
achievement." Id. In the present case, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets either 
of these two conditions. The Beneficiary had retired from the sport 15 years before the filing date, and 
the record does not show that any acclaim he earned as an athlete has continued into his coaching career. 
The Petitioner also cites Matter of X-N-, ID# 15507 (AAO Apr. 20, 2016), stating that we 
"acknowledged that a coach's athletic success reflects his or her expertise in the sport." The Petitioner 
quotes a sentence fragment: "the Petitioner's expertise in gymnastics generally is supported by his own 
prior success as a gymnast." Id. at 4. This fragment, however, omits key context evident in the complete 
sentence: "Though not determinative of his preeminence as a coach, the Petitioner's expertise in 
gymnastics generally is supported by his own prior success as a gymnast." Id. (emphasis added). We 
did not state or imply that prior acclaim as an athlete was sufficient, in itself: to demonstrate acclaim 
as a coach, or to permanently establish eligibility regardless of the former athlete's subsequent career. 
Rather, we devoted considerable attention to that petitioner's achievements as a coach, noting that 
"[h ]e has trained students at the highest levels for over fifteen years," with several of those students 
winning gold medals in national-level competitions. The Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary in the present case has reached a comparable level of achievement. 
In a new (2010) lettr submitted on appeal, a professiona~ I coach claims that the Beneficiary worked 
for him "as a coach from 2006 to 2017." But an earlier letter from this same individual contradicts 
this assertion. The coach stated in 2018 that the Beneficiary "has been working as myl I Technical 
Advisor since 2008." This earlier letter does not indicate that the Beneficiary had any experience as a 
5 
coach, rather than as an advisor reporting to a coach, before he entered the United States a few months 
prior to the petition's filing date. The revision of this claim on appeal raises questions of credibility, 
particularly in light of counsel's misquoting of th~ I letter to backdate the Beneficiary's activity 
there. Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of 
other evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 
582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
When weighing the conflicting assertions about the extent of the Beneficiary's coaching work abroad, we 
note the Petitioner's submission of a book published in 2012,I 1 , I 
which includes an interview with the Beneficiary. The translation submitted by the Petitioner does not 
mention any then-current coaching work. Rather, it states that the Beneficiary "[ c ]urrently ... manages 
his assets ... and invests in courses to start his coaching career." The initial submission also included 
letters dated 2017 and 2018 from various prominent! I players, none of whom indicated that the 
Beneficiary had ever worked as a coach. The players state, instead, that the Beneficiary has worked "as 
a technical advisor fo~ !teams in! I (the wording varies slightly from letter to letter). 
The record does not unambiguously establish that the Beneficiary had any coaching experience at all 
before 2018, and the small amount of evidence the Petitioner has submitted about the Beneficiary's recent 
work does not indicate that he has earned acclaim for his post-athletic career. The record does not 
establish that the U.S. teams that employed him at the time of filing compete at the highest levels 
nationally or internationally. 
As noted above, the Petitioner cited the Beneficiary's recent work witH las evidence of his activity 
as a judge. While the Beneficiary's evaluation of children during team tryouts may technically qualify as 
'judging," this activity is inherent to coaching at all levels of competition, and it does not serve to 
distinguish the Beneficiary from others in the same occupation. Judging the abilities o~ I players 
between seven and ten years of age ( ages shown on team rosters in the record) neither requires, nor causes, 
sustained national or international acclaim for the person doing the judging. 
The record does not show that the Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim 
that continued into his post-competitive career. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary is eligible for the classification sought. 
C. Continued Work/Prospective Benefit 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Beneficiary will not continue working in his area of 
expertise because he is no longer playing competitively. For the reasons already discussed above, we 
generally agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Beneficiary's area of expertise isl I which 
is broad enough to encompass coaching and other related activities. The Director also concluded that 
the Petitioner did establish that the Beneficiary's entry will substantially beneT prospTtively the 
United States, but the only basis the Director cited to support this conclusion is the popularity I l rather than any discussion of how the Beneficiary's work coaching a 
children's team would inherently be of substantial benefit not only to that team but to the United States. 
Therefore, there is reason to question both of these determinations by the Director. Nevertheless, 
because the Petitioner has not met the threshold requirement of sustained national or international 
acclaim, we need not explore these two other determinations in greater detail. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
who have reached the top of their respective fields, and who remain there at the time of filing. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Beneficiary previously played at what amounts to a major 
league level, but his career as a player ended years ago, and the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's subsequent work has attracted recognition indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of his current field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record minimally documents the Beneficiary's coaching 
work, and does not indicate that he is a top coach, or coach advisor, in the field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17041555 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a video journalist, 1 seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The Petitioner states that the term "video journalist " is "[u]sed interchang eably with videographer or camera person." 
Copies of press credentials in the record refer to the Petitioner as a "senior cameraman " and "senior videographer. " 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for several television networks in Banglresh, inrudingl ITV and 
Asian TV. When he filed the petition, the Petitioner was working for TV in the United States as 
an 1-1 nonimmigrant representative of foreign information media, and making a documentary forl I I I The Petitioner states tha~ I TV seeks to employ him. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (i) and (iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other six claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (i) and (iv). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of Dhaka Reporters Unity (DRU), the Law Reporters Forum (LRF), and the I I The Petitioner submits letters from officials of DRU 
and the LRF, but these letters do not establish the associations' membership requirements. A letter from 
thec=J indicates that the Petitioner is "the senior and founding member ofc=::J' which does not 
indicate that others had a role in admitting him into the organization. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's memberships, but determined that the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence to show that the associations have membership requirements that conform to the 
language of the regulation. 
On appeal, the Petitio1er emjhasizes that he "is a senior member [ of] both DRU and LRF" and "is a 
founding member [ of] The Petitioner states that hisl resporse to a request for evidence (RFE) 
included "supplemental letters from DRU and LRF as well as sic] documentation," but he does not 
elaborate or explain how these materials show that the Petitioner meets the requirements of the criterion. 
Review of the submitted materials confirms that they do not establish the respective associations' 
membership requirements. 
The Petitioner describes the DRU as "the largest association of reporters working in Dhaka," andc=J' s 
general secretary describes that organization as "the largest and only such organization registered by the 
government in Bangladesh." The large size of an organization tends to argue against exclusive, restrictive 
membership requirements of the kind contemplated by the regulation. 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of any association that requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits English translations of articles about him that appeared in Prothom-Alo North 
America, Weekly Ajkal, Weekly Bornomala, Weekly Probash, Jugantor, and Bangladesh Protidin. Some 
of the articles report that the Petitioner is workin on a documenta about the I I a 
1971 benefit show organized b)\r-------, ________ ____J The other submitted articles report 
on the Petitioner's receipt of the~--~Award. 
Background information shows that WeeklvAikal, Weekly Bornomala, and Weekly Pro bash are published 
within a few blocks of one another in thel I New York, with readerships 
consisting of Bangladeshi immigrants in the New York area. Consistent with this information, 
advertisements in these newspapers promote local I !businesses such as food markets and realtors. 
3 
The Petitioner submits evidence that the Daily Prothom Alo "is one of the largest Bangla newspapers 
with over 5.3 million readers per day," but the Petitioner has not shown that any article about him 
appeared in that newspaper. The article about him appeared in Prothom Alo North America, a related but 
separate publication for which the Petitioner has not provided any circulation statistics. 
Several of the articles refer to the Petitioner with adjectives such as "renowned" and "famous," but we 
note that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence of media coverage while he was in Bangladesh. All 
of the articles appeared in U.S.-based publications i~ 12019, a few weeks before the filing of 
the petition; there is no evidence of earlier media coverage. 
The Petitioner did not provide information about the other media outlets. 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the publications appear to be narrowly targeted local 
newspapers that do not meet the regulatory requirements. On appeal, the Petitioner states that 
Bangladesh's permanent representative to the United Nations called the establishment of Prothom Alo 
North America "a positive achievement for the expatriate Bangladeshis" ( a quotation from a Prothom Alo 
story rather than directly from the official), but this praise does not establish that Prothom Alo North 
America qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Rather, it is 
consistent with the narrow focus of the New York publication. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that his work appeared on "one of Bangladesh's leading television 
networks." His own work as a journalist, however, is not published material about him, and does not 
relate to his work. 
The Petitioner's evidence does not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner states that he "has worked with leading television channels and won many awards from 
distinguished institutions for his incredible work. ... Arguably, Petitioner's work has been exhibited in 
prestigious venues to distinguished audiences." A television news program is not an artistic exhibition 
or showcase. The Petitioner submits photographs showing him with various dignitaries and working at 
locations such as the United Nations General Assembly Hall, but his work was not on display at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases at those locations, and his work does not transform from informational to artistic 
because of where he performed that work. 
In the RFE, the Director asked the Petitioner to identify and document the artistic exhibitions or showcases 
that displayed his work. In response, the Petitioner acknowledged that "there should be evidence of 
Petitioner's work on display at an event that was artistic in nature," but did not explain how his evidence 
satisfies that criterion. Instead, he stated that the Petitioner's documentaries and his reporting from 
international political conferences "would also constitute display of his work." The Petitioner states that, 
if this evidence does not meet the letter of the regulation, "then the evidence will be offered under 
comparable evidence" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
4 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that his work has been 
displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases as the regulation requires. The Director acknowledged the 
Petitioner's request for consideration as comparable evidence, but the Director stated that the Petitioner 
did not establish that the criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that showings of "his award-winning documentaries ... are analogous 
to display or exhibition of [his] work." Documentary films can be shown in an artistic context, such as 
film festivals, but the Petitioner does not submit evidence of this kind. News broadcasts serve an 
informational purpose, rather than an artistic one, and do not constitute qualifying displays. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner states that he meets this criterion as a senior founding member of theO and "also had 
a critical role for Asian TV andl !Television." The Petitioner does not submit independent 
evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of the~; a letter from the organization's own general 
secretary is not first-hand evidence of how others outside the dorganizrion perceive the□ Also, the 
letter does not describe the nature of the Petitioner's role at th 
The Petitioner establishes that he held ~------~' titles at various television networks in 
Bangladesh, but he does not show that his roles were critical for those networks at the organizational 
level. He led camera teams, but did not establish that the camera teams were organizations with 
distinguished reputations in their own right. 
Letters from colleagues indicate that these individuals hold the Petitioner in high regard, but, while they 
list various positions the Petitioner has held in his career, they do not explain how these roles were leading 
or critical to the entities that employed him. 
The president of the DRU states that the Petitioner "has been playing an important role in the training and 
award selection committee" that grants "awards in several categories each year." Here again, the official 
does not explain how activities with the committee is critical to the DRU at the organizational level. 
The Director concluded that, although "[t]he evidence shows that the petitioner is and was important to 
his current and former employers, ... the evidence does not establish that his role was leading or critical 
... to the entire organization, as opposed to a department, assignment, or project within the organization." 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats prior assertions about his role as a founding senior member of thel~-~ 
and his journalistic work covering "significant international events." The Petitioner does not directly 
address or rebut the Director's conclusions. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
A letter fro~ !Television indicates that the Petitioner earned a basic salary of 84,000 Bangladeshi 
taka (Tk) plus various benefits. Appointment letters from various employers show monthly salary 
amounts ofTk25,000 in 2000; Tk50,000 in 2006; and Tk73,000 in 2011. 
AO official states that the Petitioner is a "highly paid video journalist by the standards of Bangladesh," 
but the record does not establish what those standards are. The Petitioner submits a 2013 table from the 
Eighth Newspaper Wage Board of Bangladesh's Ministry oflnformation, setting a wage range for "Grade 
2" journalists (which includes the titles "Chief Photo Journalist" and "Senior Photo Journalist") from 
Tk24,106 to Tk39,856. The Petitioner also submits a newspaper article that cites figures from the table. 
The Petitioner asserts, on appeal, that the Director did not give enough weight to this table. But the table 
does not explain the significance of the ranges (for example, whether the ranges cover variations for 
experience, achievement, or other factors). More significantly, the table specifically relates to newspaper 
reporters and editors. The Petitioner does not establish that the Newspaper Wage Board has jurisdiction 
over wages paid to television journalists, and he provides no basis for comparing his salary to that of 
others in his occupation. 
The Petitioner has not established that he commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner states that "[h ]is track record of over two (2) decades in the industry is a testament to 
his commercial success," and that "his accomplishments as a prolific video journalist ... should be 
considered in regards to his stature and extraordinary prowess in the field of expertise." The Petitioner, 
however, identifies no documentary evidence of the kind described in the regulation. There is no 
presumption that length of experience in the occupation implies commercial success, and the Petitioner 
does not attempt to establish that a video journalist works in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner's employment as a video journalist with major television channels in Bangladesh is not 
tantamount to commercial success in the performing arts, and the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
on a par with box office receipts or recording sales as the regulation requires. The Petitioner's 
evidence does not satisfy any element of the wording of the regulation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
6 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established a career with prominent employers, and 
he has submitted letters from various colleagues who assert that he is well-known in his field. The 
record, however, lacks the "extensive documentation" required by the statute to corroborate these 
claims, and the stated credentials of several of those colleagues appear to eclipse those of the 
Petitioner. The Petitioner has not established the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrated a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19920861 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an information technology (IT) project manager, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error because the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, and a subsequent combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings. Section291 oftheAct,8U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofCheung, 12 l&NDec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Es time, 19 l&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon review, we will 
dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204. Section 205 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1155. By regulation this revocation authority is delegated to any U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) officer who is authorized to approve an immigrant visa petition. See 
8 C.F.R. § 205 .2(a). USCIS must give the petitioner notice of its intent to revoke the prior approval 
of the petition and the opportunity to submit evidence in opposition thereto, before proceeding with 
written notice ofrevocation. See 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(b) and(c). The Board oflmmigrationAppeals has 
discussed revocations on notice as follows: 
[A] notice of intention to revoke a visa petition is properly issued for "good and 
sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time the notice is issued, if 
unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa petition based upon the 
petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The decision to revoke will be sustained 
where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, including any 
evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice of intention 
to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Es time, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). By itself, the director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and 
sufficient cause for the issuance of a notice of intent to revoke an immigrant petition. Id. The approval 
of a visa petition vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but 
a preliminary step in the visa application process. The beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the 
petition, entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. at 589. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--{x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements, such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee, but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 
2 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, originally from Nigeria, is a Canadian citizen. He received his Doctor of Computer 
Science from !University in 2016. At the time he filed the petition in 2016, he 
worked as an IT manager for Subse uent letters indicated that the Petitioner began 
working as a lead business systems anal st for in 2019, and as manager 
of IT Systems and Administration for beginning in 2021. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director approved the petition in December 2016, but revoked the approval in December 2019 
based on the conclusion that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, relating to memberships. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from the Director's decision in October 2020. In that decision, we 
discussed the five claimed evidentiary criteria in depth, and concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied 
two of the initial evidentiary criteria, relating to judging the work of others and publication of scholarly 
articles. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent combined motion to reopen and reconsider in July 2021, 
concluding that the Petitioner did not accurately describe the grounds for revocation or fully address the 
grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We also discussed, in further detail, the criteria pertaining to 
memberships and high remuneration, and concluded that the Petitioner's new evidence did not show that 
he had satisfied those criteria. 
In his second motion, the Petitioner submits more evidence pertaining to memberships and remuneration. 
For the reasons discussed below, this new evidence does not establish proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has maintained that his status as a senior member of the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) meets the requirements of the criterion.1 The 
1 The Petitioner is also a memberoftheAssociationforComputerMachine1y, but his latest motion includes evidence only 
regarding his IEEE membership. 
3 
Director agreed, but we withdrew and reversed that determination in our appellate decision, finding that 
the requirements for senior membership do not include outstanding achievements, and that the Petitioner 
had not shown that recognized national or international experts judge the achievements of candidates for 
senior membership. 
In our decision on the Petitioner's first motion, we concluded that the Petitioner's additional evidence 
showed that senior membership is more restrictive than lower membership categories, but the Petitioner 
had not shown that the requirements for senior membership rose to the level of outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Now, on his second motion, the Petitioner states: 
The election to senior member status of IEEE is conducted by the Admission and 
Advancement (A&A) Senior Member Review Panel ... [ with members] recruited among 
Senior members, Life Senior members, and Fellows of the section where the meeting is 
to be held. The panel members are experts in their chosen fields. 
The new evidence submitted with the second motion does not establish that panel members are nationally 
or internationally recognized experts in their fields, as the regulation requires. As we noted in a prior 
decision, an IEEE official previously indicated that panel members are typically chosen "from the local 
IEEE Section." This information, directly from the IEEE, did not indicate that panel service was limited 
to nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of the IEEE Fellow Committee Recommendation Guide: How 
to Write an Effective Nomination. The Petitioner observes: "The IEEE Bylaws define the qualifications 
for elevation to Fellow Grade in terms of unusual distinction in the profession, an outstanding record of 
accomplishments ... bringing the realization of significant value to society." As we previously observed 
in our appellate decision, "the requirements to become a Fellow appear to be align much more closely 
with the regulatory language than the requirements for the Senior Member grade." 
The Petitioner asserts: "The only importantrequirementduringnomination[forelevation to fellow grade] 
is that the nominee must be a Senior member of IEEE. This is because you must have met and passed 
through the rigorous screening process before you can become a Senior member of the association." The 
second quoted sentence is speculative and unsupported. While senior members are more experienced 
and accomplished than the overall IEEE membership, the Petitioner has not established that applicants 
for senior member grade are subjected to a "rigorous screening process," or that senior membership is 
"[t]he only important requirement" for elevation to fellow grade. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that "only 9% ofIEEE['s] 428,000 members have achieved the status 
of Senior Member in the organization." Ninepercentof428,000 is 38,520, which is a substantial number. 
The Petitioner has not shown that IEEE has empaneled nationally or internationally recognized experts 
in order to individually judge the achievements of thousands of applicants for senior membership, which 
includes nearly 40,000 applicants whose applications were approved and an unspecified additional 
number of unsuccessful applicants. Printouts from IEEE's website show that IEEE has a dedicated 
Fellow Committee, which makes recommendation to the IEEE Board of Directors- literally the highest 
level of the organization. In contrast, as noted above, senior members are chosen at the local chapter 
4 
level, a delegation that is fully consistent with the very high number of senior members. Also, the same 
printouts indicate that "[a]ccording to IEEE Bylaw I-305.5, the total number of Pellow recommendations 
in any one year must not exceed one-tenth of one percent of the voting membership." 
While the Petitioner's motion establishes thatIEEEhaspublisheda 2 7-page guide for individuals wishing 
to nominate an IEEE member for elevation to fellow grade, he does not submit similar documentation 
relating to senior member grade to establish that his membership would qualify under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
IEEE's requirements for elevation to fellow grade clearly state that nominees must "[h]ave 
accomplishments that have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, 
science and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society." The Petitioner has not 
shown that the requirements for senior member status appmach that level of achievement. Instead, those 
requirements include productivity and length of experience. The Petitioner has not established that his 
level of IEEE membership clears the very high threshold established in the language of the regulation. 
The newly submitted Recommendation Guide does not establish proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner earned $115,000 per year, and submitted "wage 
statistics that indicate that those at the top of the field command at least $129,700." Some of the wage 
information came from O-NET, a database operated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. 
Department of Labor (DOL). In our initial appellate decision, we concluded that the submitted evidence 
was too broad to show thatthe Petitioner has commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field. 
Some of the evidence failed to account for local variations, and others included lower-paying occupations 
under broad umbrella terms. In our first motion decision, we concluded that the Petitioner's submitted 
figures were not applicable for various reasons. 
In his second motion, the Petitioner submits printouts from O-NET and another DOL-sponsored website, 
CareerOneStop. The printouts from both sites indicate that the salary data is for "Computer Occupations, 
All Other," because specific data for IT project managers are unavailable. This evidence is of 
questionable relevance because, as we explained in a previous decision, the general heading of"Computer 
Occupations, All Other" encompasses what O-NET acknowledged as "occupations with a wide range of 
characteristics." Most of the included occupations are non-managerial. Therefore, average or median 
figures for this diverse grouping would likely tend to be lower than for the Petitioner's specific 
occupation. Furthermore, the Petitioner seeks to compare the median salary for this broad range of 
computer workers not to his base salary, but to his total projected compensation which included the 
possibility, but not the guarantee, of a 10% bonus. 
In our prior decisions, we explained why the submitted salary infonnation is oflimited applicability. The 
Petitioner's newly submitted documentation is subject to these same limitations, and therefore does not 
show proper cause for reopening the proceeding. 
5 
We note that, if the Petitioner had cleared the initial evidentiary threshold, the case would have proceeded 
to a final merits determination, in which the Petitioner would have had to establish sustained national or 
international acclaim. In the context of sustained acclaim, it would have been relevant to note that the 
Petitioner changed jobs a number oftimes in the years immediately surrounding the filing of the petition, 
and that he provided salary or remuneration evidence for only some of his jobs during that time. With 
incomplete evidence, we would not be able to conclude that his compensation reflected sustained national 
or international acclaim. 2 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening the proceeding and 
has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 The evidence of his salary with which formed the basis for most of his sa la1y claims, consists of a job offerletter 
rather than any evidence of payments he actually received. Therefore, the Petitioner ha snot established that he actually 
received the contingent 10% bonus described in the job offer letter. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20598025 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that 
the record did not establish that the Petitioner had either demonstrated a one-time achievement, that 
is, a major, internationally recognized prize or award, or satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, as required. The Applicant filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider the decision. 
The Director dismissed the combined motion in May 2019. 
The Petitioner subsequently filed an appeal, and then two combined motions, with us. We dismissed 
the appeal in July 2020, and the motions in April 2021 and August 2021. The matter is now before us 
on a third combined motion.1 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the latest combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as petitions forrehearingand 
motions fora new trial on the basis ofnewly discovered evidence. SeeINSv. Doherty, 502U.S. 314,323 (1992) (citinglNS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be suppmted 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish thatthe decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
III. ANALYSIS 
In August 2021, we dismissed the Petitioner's second motion to reconsider with a six-page decision 
in which we discussed the Petitioner's arguments and explained why they did not overcome the basis 
of the appeal's denial and were deficient. The Petitioner's latest motion does not address or rebut the 
conclusions in our August 2021 decision. Instead, apart from a few introductory paragraphs, the brief 
for the Petitioner's latest (third) motion is almost identical to the brief submitted with her second 
motion. The Petitioner does not cite any statute, regulation, case law, or other sources to establish that 
our prior conclusions regarding these arguments were incorrect. 
2 
As noted above, a motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reconsider is not a process to seek reconsideration by generally alleging 
error in the prior decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006). The Petitioner's 
resubmission oflargely the same brief does not show proper cause for reconsideration. 
In her second motion, the Petitioner asserted that she had previously submitted relevant new evidence 
that we have not yet duly considered. When we dismissed that second motion in August 2021, we 
discussed the evidence and explained why it did not satisfy regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204. 5 (h )(3) 
relating to awards, memberships, and salary. The Petitioner's latest motion includes a copy of our 
August 2021 decision. Nevertheless, rather than answer or contest any of our discussion of the 
evidence in question, the Petitioner repeats the claim that we have not addressed the evidence at all, 
and therefore "reopening of this case and reconsideration of this evidence ... is required." 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the requirements of a 
motion to reconsider. We will therefore dismiss the motion. 
Because the motion brief is mostly identical to the brief submitted with her prior motion, the latest 
motion includes no new facts. The Petitioner's latest motion also includes no new evidence. As a 
result, the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen, and must be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20259190 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets three additional criteria, relating to nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards, original contributions of major significance in the field, 
and leading or critical role for organizations or establishments. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), 
( viii). He maintains that he qualifies for the classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 ;MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010).1 Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably "true, it has satisfied the preponderance of the evidence standard. Chawath e, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-
76. 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained acclaim 
and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence , then he or 
she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documenta tion is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determinat ion); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who leads the I music groupJ I According to 
page 4 of the petition, he intends to work as a music producer in the United States and be involved in 
"studio recording & production; songwriting, live performing and music industry consulting." The 
Director concluded that the evidence did not show that the Petitioner had received a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) discussed in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not challenge this finding. As such, he must satisfy at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidentiary 
requirements. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the ten criteria relating to published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record supports this 
determination . Specifically , the record includes an article published on www.Billboard .com that 
discusses the Petitioner and his music, and the evidence confirms that the website qualifies as a "major 
trade publication[] or other major media," as referenced in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . Additionally, 
the record includes evidence showing that the Petitioner has performed his music in various events 
2 
and venues, including on thel I in the I and at the I Music 
and Arts Festival in Florida. He has therefore submitted "[e]vidence of the display of [his] work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases," satisfying the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) and (viii). We will address his claim with respect to the individual evidentiary 
criteria below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the prizes or awards criterion because he earned "a 
qualification of Outstanding or Excellence" at a masterclass with and 
because he has collaborated with musician on the songwriting, recording and 
production of original song I The Petitioner alleges that I is "one of the most 
influential artists in the world," and that I is a "renown I guitarist, .. 
. who is a living legend as a guitarist" in I Spain. According to a2019 certificate and a document 
entitled "Course Outline" froml the Petitioner "attended and successfully 
completed the following Summer Class(es): Guitar 4 Master Class by and "received a 
grade of Excellent." The Petitioner also presented documents relating to his song I I 
including online printouts from www.spotifv.com, indicating that the song featured! I 
as well as another artist named I I 
Although the Petitioner claims that these accomplishments confirm his "recognition of excellence in 
the field of endeavor," he has failed to demonstrate that his grade at a summer program or his 
collaboration with another musician in one song constitutes a prize or an award as referenced in 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). As explained in the Director's decision, the Petitioner has not offered 
"documentary evidence to establish that comp le ting [ a summer pro gram or being involved in a musical 
collaboration] is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. Accordingly, he has not satisfied this criterion.2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he satisfies the original contributions criterion because his 
musical work is both original and of major significance in the field. We find the record does not 
support his contention. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he has submitted comparable evidence that satisfies the criterion under 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4 ). Forthereasons we will discuss in SubheadingB of this decision, we disagree. 
3 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The record includes a number ofreference letters discussing the Petitioner's musical work, claiming 
that he has created a new genre of music. For example _________ the director of 
Billboard Magazine from itsl I hub, states that the Petitioner's "ability in music comes 
from his capacity to combine different influences of his I I heritage, including! lmusic 
... , with rock and folk traditions, including! I ro£l I ___________ claims that the Petitioner's ''ability to compose and perform highly 
sophisticated music involving the intersection between multiple genres is unparalleled" and that his 
"extraordinary ability in mixing musical genres from around the world -including! I I is incredibly rare in the music industry." I I 
a designer, architect and naturalist, states that the Petitioner has "sinle handed! created a new genre 
of music involving musical sounds from I I a music producer associated with the Music and Arts F 1 
rovides that the Petitioner ossesses an extraordinar abilit in a rarified music enre of 
a musician and composer, states that the Petitioner's "compositions are rich and eclectic, blending 
various genres like rock, blues, and folk in a novel way that makes his music unique and diff erenf" 
and that his music "has resulted in the creation of a new sound, an amalgamation of genres from around 
the world." I I the chief creative officer and managing partner at the I 
indicates that the Petitioner has "reached a level of prominence in his very unique music genre that 
perfectly combines Latin folk with rock music" and that he "is a very successful [] musician and artist 
in his niche musical genre." These, as well as other reference letters and documents not specifically 
discussed here, sufficiently confirm that the Petitioner's music -which combines musical styles from 
different part of the world -is original and unique. 
Notwithstanding this finding, however, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his music 
constitutes "contributions of major significance in the field," as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). While the record includes some evidence that the Petitioner's musical talents have 
been recognized, it is insufficient to confirm that his work has been widely implemented throughout 
the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. A 2017 article posted on www.billboard.com discusses the Petitioner's record I I stating that it "shows the growing maturity of a musician who is open to share with 
artists of different styles" and the record "is a showcase of a music artist who tries to blur the lines 
with absolute abandon." A similar article was published in Billboard which states that the 
Petitioner 
and that his record _____ "is the staging of a musical character that seeks to 
dilute borders with an utterly unbiased mind." The Petitioner has also offered evidence showing that 
he was interviewed by I at her pod cast, in which he "talk[ed] about his struggles breaking 
free from the corporate world to pursue his dream of making music." While the documentation 
concerning media exposure indicates that the Petitioner has received some attention from the field, it 
4 
is insufficient to establish that the extent of his influence has risen to the level of "major significance 
in the field." 
Similarly, while the Petitioner and his music group have performed in a number of events 
and venues, including the _____ in the and thel I Music and 
Arts Festival, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the reception of his work supports a finding 
that it constitutes "major significance in the field." According to the materials in the record, the 
presents to the public free performances of "music, theater, and dance feature 
emerging and established artists from the [local] area, across the nation, and around the world." This 
means that artists of different levels of influence in the field are invited to perform for the public on 
thel I and that being invited to perform on the does not necessarily 
indicate that a articular artist has made contributions of major significance in the field. Likewise, 
accordin t he invited the Petitioner and his music group I I to perform at 
th Music and Arts Festival, which I claims to have attracted "over 40,000 
attendees," because he was impressed with the Petitioner's "guitar playing skills" and "the quality of 
his vocals." While I I alleges that the Petitioner's participation in festival "is an incredible 
honor and evidences [his] superior talents [as] a musical artist," neither the letter nor other evidence 
in the record confim1s that his perf mmances in the festival or any other events or venues resulted in 
his musical style being widely adopted throughout the field, has remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
Some of the Petitioner's references allege that his licensing agreement is indicative of his impact in 
the field. We disagree. The record includes a 2014 licensing agreement, under which the Petitioner 
(the licensor) allowed I I (the licensee) to "deliver[] [his 
musical work] in diverse f ormats ... and through diverse digital channels ... such as cell phones and 
internet," and that the licensee agreed to pay the Petitioner a "royalty percentage." The Petitioner has 
not submitted additional documentation concerning this licensing agreement, such as the amount of 
"royalty percentage" compensation he has received, or whether the parties are still under contractual 
obligations. Regardless, similar to having articles written about him and his work, this licensing 
agreement shows that the field has noticed the Petitioner, but it falls short of confirming that his 
musical work is of such caliber that it constitutes "contributions of major significance."3 
Indeed, some of the Petitioner's references indicate that his musical work of combining different 
musical styles might one day impact the field in a significant way. For exampleJ I I I a music director for a number of orchestras, indicates that the Petitioner "has reached a 
point in his music career where he is on the verge of achieving worldwide fame for his unquestionably 
distinctive style and aptitude." I I a film and commercial director, states that he has "no[] 
doubt that subsequent performers, composers and critics have and will embrace his fusion of electric 
genres such as folk and rock, spawning a new type of music." an entertainment 
attorney, claims that the Petitioner "is well on his way to becoming a leading light in today's field of I I music, having himself coined a unique expression I I which 
almost creates a new genre of music."I I a producer and owner of I 
3 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a September2021 licensingagreementwitH I As this document 
postdates the filing of the petition in July 2021, it does not demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility at the time he filed the 
petition. Sec 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) (providing that a petitioner"mustestablish that he or she is eligible for the requested 
benefit at the time offilingthe benefit request and must continue to be eligible through adjudication"). 
5 
I I provides that the Petitioner "has created a fusion of two vastly different varieties of 
music and his innovation and creation of a new and different style of music will soon 
invigorate and change the music scene." These reference letters discuss the potential impact of the 
Petitioner's work. This criterion, however, requires evidence that his work has already made 
contributions of major significance in the field. Speculations of his work's potential impact, thus, are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The opinions of the Petitioner's references are not without weight and have been considered above. 
However, for the reasons we have discussed above, the letters and other evidence in the record fail to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the field. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions 
statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 
1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final detennination regarding an 
individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of reference letters supporting the 
petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we have in this case, evaluate the 
content of those letters as to whether they support the individual's eligibility. See id. at 795-96. Thus, 
the content of the references' statements are important considerations. The record, including the 
reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's original work has been unusually 
influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen to the level of musical 
contributions of major significance. As such, he has not demonstrated that he meets this regulatory 
criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion because he was the "Project Leader and 
Marketing Strategist" for I 
" 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) (including an appendix 
that discusses all ten criterion), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
Additionally, in determining whether an organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation, 
the relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor. Rather, the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation. 
As supporting evidence, the Petitioner offers a letter from who claims in an 
August 2021 letter that while working forl I he "was leading the Latin American promotion of 
... and also planning for I 
states that the Petitioner assisted him in 
both the campaign and the and was "in charge of the integration of 
6 
digital/online strategies, market research and comparative analysis of musical festivals." He alleges 
that "[d]ue in large part of [the Petitioner's] leading efforts and the rest of an international team, 
became the best and fastest selling I in the digital age," and that the 
Petitioner's "craft and critical role in planning and executing I lwas equally as 
impressive." The record includes other documents relating to both the campaign and the festival. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated thatj I or one of its departments or divisions qualifies as an 
organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
atF.2(8)(2) (appendix). Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person." See www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished. On appeal, the Petitioner submits evidence concerning! I 
including a Variety article, materials posted on www.WallStreetWomenForum.com and 
www.wmg.com, indicating that I I is "a fonner talent-management and current investment 
company" "dedicated to innovative growth-stage businesses in the consumer, media and technology 
sectors," and that it had "worked closely with artists including These 
documents, as well as those not specifically mentioned, show tha had worked with certain well-
known performers, they are, however, insufficient to support a finding that its reputation, or the 
reputation of one of its departments or divisions, is "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." 
As such, the Petitioner has not shown that I I or one of its departments or divisions has a 
distinguished reputation. 
Moreover, the evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner, based on his involvement in one 
campaign and one festival, was a leader within I a division or a department withinl I or that 
he contributed in a way that is of significant impmiance to the outcome of lactivities or those 
of a division or department within See 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, atF.2(8)(2) ( appendix). 
The Petitioner's title in I and his associated duties, are insufficient to show that he was a leader. 
Similarly, while he might have played a significant role in certain aspects -including "integration of 
digital/online strategies, market research and comparative analysis of musical festivals -of the 
campaign and the I he has failed to explain the significance of his work to the I 
as a whole or to a I I division or department. Without additional corroborating evidence 
demonstrating his leading or critical role forl I or one of its divisions or departments, and 
establishin or one of its divisions or departments has a distinguished reputation, he has not 
satisfied this regulatory criterion. 4 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he has submitted comparable evidence showing that he meets the 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards criterion under8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses comparable evidence and allows a petitioner the 
opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish his or her eligibility, if USCIS determines 
that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's occupation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(8)(2) (appendix). In this case, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence 
4 Additionally, we note that the Petitioner indicated on page 4 of the petition that he intends to work as a music producer 
in the United States, claiming extraordinary ability as a musician and a musical producer. He, however, has explained 
how his expe1ience in business strategies, marketing and market research relates to the field in which he claims 
extra ordinary ability. 
7 
showing that the nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not readily apply to his occupation as a musician and music producer. The fact 
that he has not received such prizes or awards is insufficient to support a finding that the criterion 
"do[es] not readily apply to the []occupation." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Moreover, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his successful completion of a summer masterclass program or his musical 
collaboration with another musician is truly comparable to nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. See id. Based on these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established that he may rely on comparable evidence to satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). See also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition, which is adjudicated based on a different standard, statute, regulations, and 
case law. Many immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. 
See, e.g., Sunlift Int ·z v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 2021); Q Data Consulting, 
Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dep 't of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 
(D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 
F. 2d 41, 42 (2d Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the offices 
adjudicating nonimmigrant visa petitions, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals 
and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf 
of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration 
petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we note that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a musician who has gained some recognition for his work. But he has not 
shown that this recognition rises to the required level of sustained national or international acclaim, or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also Section 203(b )(l)(A) oftheAct. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who 
8 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above 
stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8264039 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a fashion designer and chief ex~e_cu_t_iv_e_o_ffi_1c_-e_r_o_f--=====------' He received 
his Bachelor of Fine Arts in fashion design from School of Design in 2016. ~--------~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets five of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. The Director determined 
that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets four of them, including: lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); published material in 
major trade publications or other major media at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); display of his work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); and performance in a leading or critical 
role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied these four criteria. The 
Petitioner has established that he received a I I Merit Award that is internationally 
recognized in his field, and that he has been featured in major trade and media publications including 
Vogue. In addition, the record reflects that his artistic work has been displayed at several major 
fashion shows, and that he holds a leading and critical role as the founder and CEO of his own design 
studio. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the criterion related to outstanding contributions 
of major significance in his field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, as he has established that 
he satisfies four other criteria, we need not address whether he meets a fifth, but we will consider the 
evidence submitted as part of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility. 
As noted the Petitioner raduated from School of Design in 2016 and was recognized by the 
as one of the top design graduates from 1round the 
~w_o_rl_d_t_h_a_t y_e_a_r ___ H_e_e_s_t-ab-1-is_h_e_d_h_i_s -e-po_n_y_m_o_u_s -fa~shion label in 2016, founded his company, I 
I linl I in 2017, and holds a trademark for his brand, which is sold through his 
online store and at several retail fashion boutiques. 
The Petitioner was the recipient ofl I's Merit A ward in 2016 for hisl I 201 7 
collection, the first collection released on his fashion labei.l I is described as a I I I I International emerging designer platform." Winners of its Merit Award receive £20,000 in 
financial support across three seasons and a folly sponsored solo show at thd I Showcase 
atl !Fashion Week, which is regarded in the field as one of the four major international shows, 
along withl I The evidence reflects that the Merit Award is competitive, 
with one winner chosen from hundreds of international applicants. The Petitioner provided evidence 
that his receipt of the Merit Award was announced onl Is website and reported by major 
media. For example, his 2017 I I collection appeared on the I I Vogue website in 
connection with his catwalk show atl I Fashion Week. 
Based on the foregoing, the evidence demonstrates that the I I Merit A ward is an 
internationally recognized award that garnered the Petitioner acclaim and major media attention. 
Further, the record refl~cts tha; be urasl invited to return to I I Fashion Week to show his 
I 1201 7 and I _ _ O 18 collections which received similar recognition. He has 
shown subsequent collections at I Fashion Week, where his collection was highlighted by 
Elle and Vogue. This evidence demonstrates that he has been able to sustain his initial acclaim by 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in 
part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
continuing to gamer recognition from industry professionals and the media at the industry's major 
fashion showcases each season. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that his collections have consistently appeared in major online 
fashion media, including Nylon, Marie Claire, Schon!, Bazaar, and Elle, with Bazaar and Elle also 
featuring his brand in articles about their favorite new labels and designers. This recognition from major 
media in the industry demonstrates that the Petitioner's company and brand have achieved a distinguished 
reputation. As the CEO of the brand, the Petitioner himself has been featured in interviews with Vogue 
and Interview in which he discussed his background, inspiration, and design philosophy. 
The Petitioner has also submitted evidence that addresses his contributions to his field and the impact 
and influence of his work. This evidence includes reference letters, additional media reports, social 
media, and evidence that the Petitioner's designs have been sought after by celebrity stylists and/or 
worn by influential celebrities . 
.__ ____ ---,JI editor-in-chief atl I emphasizes that the Petitioner's work is unique and 
praises the broad appeal of his designs to a variety of women. She states that she regards the Petitioner 
as "a standout fashion designer among all others within the field" based on his work, noting that he 
has cultivated a distinct space for his brand despite being in the early stages of his career. I I I I who is self-described as a fashion influencer, director and model, comments on the 'c=J I I detail design" elements in the Petitioner's collection, noting that it "is an effective 
signature design that instantly sets him apart from the rest of the designer crowd." I Uescribes 
his work as "pioneering and groundbreaking" and opines that he is "a leading fashion designer." 
We have also considered evidence that the Petitioner's work has received significant attention from 
fashion stylists, who have either dressed their celebrity clients in his pieces or have sought out his 
work in the process of choosing potential looks for their clients. Specifically, the Petitioner provided 
evidence that actress I I and model wore ieces from his collections for 
photoshoots that appeared in Bazaar magazine, and actress~---~wore one of his dresses on the 
cover of Esquire. In addition, the Petitioner provides evidence that musician I I prominently 
wore pieces from his collection in the music video for '1 I which has seven million views. 
He also submits email communications indicating that stylists working with Alicia Keys, Lady Gaga, 
Rita Ora, and Solange Knowles have reached out to his studio to request pieces from his collection as 
options to present to their clients for television appearances and public events. Finally, the record 
establishes that the Petitioner's designs are regularly featured by popular fashion influencers on 
Instagram and receive substantial attention from what he describes as "niche" media (in the United 
States and abroad) focused on fashion and culture, such as Fashionista, The Impression, L 'Officiel, 
WWD, PlusMinus, Notis, Design Now, Fashion Capital, and PopSugar. 
Overall, the evidence shows that the Petitioner has received sustained acclaim for his work since he 
established his brand and that he is recognized and highly regarded by major media and by other 
professionals in the fashion industry. Although the Petitioner entered the industry only a few years 
prior to the filing of the petition, we note that his entry into the industry received international attention 
and that he has sustained that recognition while growing his brand; there is no definitive time frame 
4 
on what constitutes "sustained."3 The totality of the evidence establishes that the Petitioner possesses 
a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor and that he has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in the United States in his area of expertise. He therefore 
qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 14 (stating that "[a] beneficiary may be very young in his or 
her career and still be able to show sustained acclaim"). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6986109 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a photographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of that small 
percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a photographer who works in the genre of documentary portraiture, typically 
choosing members of the Chinese working class as his subjects. His work has been displayed in China 
and internationally from 2002 until the present time. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had met three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, pertaining to receipt of nationally recognized awards or prizes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i); published material in professional or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
and display of his work in artistic exhibitions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record supports 
the Director's determination that these criteria were met. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director erred in determining that he did not satisfy a fourth criterion, relating to original contributions 
of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and that the Director also failed to consider relevant 
evidence pertaining to those contributions in his final merits analysis. 
As the Petitioner has established that he satisfied at least three alternative criteria, we will conduct a 
final merits determination of all the evidence, including evidence of his original contributions, below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed below, 
the Petitioner has demonstrated that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initijlly achieved national acclaim as a photographer in 2002 for 
his very first series of photographs titled and later attended and graduated from thel I 
OAcademy in 2009. The Petitioner, who was working as al I when he shot this series of 
documentary-style photographs ofl I received a bronze award at the I I 
Photographic Art Exhibition in 2002, receiving national recognition among works submitted by 
acclaimed professional photographers. The evidence reflects that the award is among the most 
prestigious national photography awards in China. 
Several of the submitted reference letters comment on the Petitioner's early success and sustained 
critical acclaim. A letter from photographe~ I who mentored the Petitioner early in his career, 
discusses the Petitioner's subjective documentary style, noting that "whenl I won the Bronze 
Prize at thd !Photographic Art Exhibition, a discussion of l I in the 
photography field was instantly spread." He states that China Photo Press, a professional publication, 
"also carried out a special report on.__~~---------' and states that the Petitioner's 
signature portrait style has had "groundbreaking significance" in China that has endured beyond the 
"instant fame" he received when he won the referenced award. Similarly, I ] llofthe China Photographers Association,! l andl I ~ News Agency, confirms in her detailed letter that the Petitioner's earliest work "instantly 
attracted the attention of numerous mainstream media and led to widespread repercussion in the 
Chinese photography field." She further affirms that his work continues to cast influence in the 
photographic art field and has continued to receive broad attention both domestically and 
internationally. 
The supporting documentation supports these conclusions. The Petitioner provided evicience that he 
drew international recognition for his work in 2003, when I I was selected for the I 
International Photography Encounter i~ , IFrance. That same year, several photographs from the 
series appeared in a New York Times Magazine article titled I I' which discussed 
the Petitioner's photographs, his unusual background, and his upcoming exhibitions at D and at 
th9 I International Photography Festival in China. The New York Times article praised his 
work, noting that his portraits "are uncannily reminiscent of [ American photographer Richard] 
Avedon's, yet unique in their intimate acquaintance with their subjects." 
3 
Later, the Petitionr's plrtrait photographs of Chinese I ~ were prominently featured in 
Time Magazine's Person of the Year special issue in which "the Chinese received 
runner-u status. He later shot a series of photographs of Chinese titled 
,..__ _____ __,_w~hich were featured in a Slate magazine article titled ''-----------~ 
' In the Slate article, the Petitioner was interviewed about his background as a 
.__p_h-ot_o_g_ra_p_h_e_r_a_n_d_h~is approach and artistic treatment ofthel lpeople who are often his subjects. 
In addition to having his documentary portrait photography featured in major media, the record reflects 
that the Petitioner has taken photographs to accompany articles for other Time magazine issues, the 
New York Times Magazine, and GQ. 
The Petitioner has also continued to display his work in solo and group exhibitions, photography 
festivals, and in permanent museum collecti n in hin n road from 2002 through 2018. He was 
the only Chinese hoto ra her selected fo s inaugural global touring exhibition 
titled ' in 2005, which highlighted 50 
photographers whr were still new to the international scene. 6 I, former director of the I I in,__ __ __, Switzerland and lllf the 2005 I exhibition, states that 
"[a]mong a field of several hundred Chinese Eaffiiiillifes, [the Petitioner's] work stood out as among 
the most exceptional." I f nres that the Petitioner has been invited to participate in the launch 
of the museum's 2020.__ ___ ___. exhibition (which is organized every five years) and to lecture 
about his work. 
Recently, the Petitioner's work has been featured in survey and retrospective exhibitions that lighlight I 
the work of prominent Chinese and international! !artists. These include 
at the I I in France, where the '-----------------------~ Petitioner's work was presented alongside international artists discovered by the museum, including 
Ansel Adams, Richard A vedon and others. The Petitioner's work was also selected for the exhibition 
which traced the histol)'. of the medium and 
~it_s_r_o-le-in_C_h_i_n_e-se-cu-ltu-re-an_d_w_a_s-sh_o_w_n_i_n_s_e_v_e_ra_l_c_-o_u~ntries. The exhibition [ I which 
featured 30 hoto ra hers from 11 countries, I 
' and was discussed.__in_a_Ni-ew_J;_o_r_k_T_im-es_a_rt-ic_l_e_t-it-le-d----.-1----------1 ----~-----~ ,__ ___ _,," in which the Petitioner was interviewed along with the exhibit's curators and organizers. 
These and other major exhibitions also speak to the international recognition the Petitioner continues 
to receive for his work and his reputation as a leading contemporary photographer in China. Further, 
the Petitioner rovided evidence that his work has been included in the permanent collectio?s ofl I 
, rt Museum, Museum of Contemporary Photograph)l I, ...... --.-----------,-'-'-'-----,_J .___~Museum, and the.__ __ ___.Center of Photography. 
Additional evidence of the Petitioner's acclaim and commentary about his work can be found in 
submitted journal articles and books that discuss his photographs. A photograph from his I I 
series appears on the cover of the book I I I I in which the author, a professor of media and communications at the Universit 
Technologyj I discusses the use of his photographs in the Time magazine articl'l'--'-'f"""'""'........,.........__----,1 
" Among other publications, the Petitioner is the subject of the article 
'---------------------------------.------'published in 
the professional publication Art and Design, and an essay published b . ._ ___ __, an acclaimed 
photographer, curator and associate professor atl I University, published by arts magazine Photo 
4 
China. His work also appears in The Daily Book of Photography and several major exhibition 
catalogs, and he is the subject of the monograph titled I I published in~ as part of a series 
on Chinese contemporary photographers. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that examples of his work, including discussions of his artistic 
approach and photography techniques, have been included in at least five Chinese photography 
textbooks intended for college and university-level students between 2009 and 2015. The textbook I I includes him in its introduction to "the creation and ideology of some 
famous photographers," while .__ _________ ___. includes "numerous composition 
experience stories of prestigious photographers" and highlights examples from several of the 
Petitioner's portrait series and his commentary on photographic composition. 
published by I I University Press, mentions that "the realistic portra._i_t -in-th_e_m_o_s_t_a_b_s-tr_a__,ct 
environment has been spoken highly ~otlographr field in China and around the world" and 
references the Petitioner's I I andl___J' s series as representative works in that style. 
Based on the evidence of the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition discussed above, the 
Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as a photographer and established that he is 
regarded as having a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 
19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is 
consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor 
and that he has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8073220 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an animal health and welfare specialist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement of either a one-time 
achievement or at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has served as~---------~for thel I in Spain, and intends 
to continue to work in the animal welfare field in the United States. She earned a degree in veterinary 
medicine from I !University i~ I in 1989, and a Master of Science degree in animal 
health from the University ofi 11992. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles in her field and her 
leading role for an organization having a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that she also meets four additional evidentiary criteria. 
After review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets the two criteria he 
identified. S ecificall , she submitted evidence that an article she co-authored a eared in a re ort, 
and ~-----------------------------------~ another article appeared in the professional journal Medicina Veterinarina. Also, several reference 
letters and other evidence confirm that she served as th or department 
for the government of thel I for several yea~r-s-. ---------~ 
However, we disagree with the Director regarding the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a 
judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director acknowledged the evidence 
of the Petitioner's work on the Technical Evaluation Committee for the Director General of 
Agriculture, but concluded that she had selected due to her official position rather than "invited as a 
2 
judge or reviewer on the basis of his [sic] extraordinary ability in the field." As noted by the Petitioner, 
the regulation does not require that an individual be selected as a judge on the basis of extraordinary 
ability. The evidence shows that as a member of this committee, she made decisions regarding funding 
applications submitted by local animal welfare groups. We therefore find that this evidence establishes 
that she meets this criterion, in addition to the two criteria mentioned above. 
Because the Petitioner has established that she meets three criteria, she has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements, and we need not consider whether she meets the additional criteria mentioned in her 
appeal brief Rather, we will consider the evidence submitted in support of those criteria, together 
with the balance of the record, to determine whether she possesses the level of acclaim and standing 
in her field to establish her eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner focuses on several aspects of her career as an animal welfare expert in asserting that 
she possesses the requisite sustained national or international acclaim in that field. She oints to the 
evidence of her role in the drafting of the 
......... ---.---------------------' ~---------which was enacted on~~- 2016, as well as the regulations regarding 
compliance with this law. In a letter from the Director General of Agriculture, Livestock and Food 
for the~-------~' submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he 
notes that while "different institutions and personnel intervene" in the drafting of any law, the 
Petitioner's role regarding this law "was the key one, for being the one determining and elaborating 
the draft." The Director General had also noted in a letter submitted with the initial filing of the 
petition that she was also "in charge of directing the technical group for developing, drafting and 
writing the first draft of the regulations" for this law. In addition, the Petitioner's role in drafting the 
law is supported by the minutes of a meeting of the Council of Animal Welfare held onl 1 J 
2015, which indicated that the Petitioner presented the draft of the law at the meeting and received the 
comments of those participating. 
Although this evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's lead role in the creation and implementation of 
this law, the record does not establish that this work impacted the field or other animal welfare experts 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
at a national or international level. An undated article from the website of the newspaper El Derecho 
reports that the draft law includes the.I"""'"'"~~~-----,_ ___ ~----------" and expands 
upon an existing law enacted by the in 1990. The article goes on to describe 
other aspects of the law, and notes that the policy was already in place at the 
'--------------------------------------' and will 
now apply to all municipal shelters in the region. However, the article does not indicate that the 
(etitioner': work on ris law has impacted the animal welfare field or other experts beyond the 
Similarly, reference letters in the record also describe the Petitioner's work on this law and its 
implementation as it relates to entities within the 
of the'---;:===::::;-------------,r=========,.--------.------,,, notes that as the 
head of I I the Petitioner initiated the I I policy and then incorporated it into her 
drafting of the pet protection law. Although I writes that the law "is undoubtedly a 
benchmark for animal protection in Spain," she does not elaborate on its impact on other Spanish 
communities or regions. Another reference letter, froml I a veterinarian in 
th~.__ _ __.brea, states that the new law "is one of the most innovative legislations in Europe," but also 
does not elaborate on this statement or indicate that the Petitioner's work on this law has influenced 
animal welfare law or policy at the national or international level. 
The Petitioner ;lso asserts that thd Is reef pt of the Animal Welfare Award from 
thd ~ r reflects national acclaim for her work 
on the Law on.__ ____________ __. In responding to the Director's finding that the 
Petitioner did not receive the award, she refers to the district court decision in Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011 (E.D.N.Y. Sep.20.2011) and contends that it found that in lieu of actually receiving 
an award, an individual may meet this criterion by being "officially credited as being involved in the 
award-winning project." The court in that case found that our conclusions that that petitioner was not 
officially credited for his claimed role in a film, and had not received an award, were supported by the 
evidence. However, the court did not find that with respect to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
being officially credited on a film or other project which receives an award is an alternative for actually 
receiving an award. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has demonstrated that she la ed an important part in the draft 
and implementation of the Law on 1..,r----------i-----' and that I I awarded 
the Animal Welfare Award to the~-----.----...---~ based upon the enactment of this law. 
However, the evidence also indicates that ~---~ issued, as it had in the past, an award for 
individuals committed to animal welfare in 2016, and that it chose not to award the Petitioner in this 
way. The article in the record froml l's website which reports on its 2016 awards indicates 
that for the entity or organization award, it sought to recognize the collective work of several groups 
who contributed to the law, rather than any single individual. That article is also accompanied by a 
picture of the Petitioner holding the award, along with a group of several other individuals, none of 
whom are named in the caption below. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her service on other ro · ects 
for '--------------------------------------~ which she was selected to research European veterinary practice regarding the inspection of small 
4 
.__ ____ ____.I and to assess those ractices in Brazil. The record includes a report authored by the 
Petitioner as part of the ro ram between the European Union and Brazil. In 
addition, a reference letter from~----------~General Secretary ofl I, confirms 
her work as an expert on this project in 2016 and a similar study conducted in Israel in 2010. Although ~-------~ writes that after visiting Brazilian I I the Petitioner "proposed 
novel and original measures in order to increase the protection of animals at the time oJ I" she 
later indicates that the Petitioner's work resulted in the adoption of European Union animal welfare 
standards. This latter statement, which conflicts with her earlier statement that the proposals were 
original, is supported by the report, which summarizes EU law and practices regarding the humane 
treatment of animals! I In addition, while the letter indicates that the Brazilian I lthat the Petitioner visited implemented many of her prorosed measures, which 
allowed them to meet European Union standards "so that I _ from Brazil meets the 
necessary animal welfare requirements," the record does not include documentary evidence that the 
Petitioner's work resulted in changes to animal welfare law or policy in Brazil similar to that seen in 
the.__ ______ ____. 
Other projects highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal include her assignment as an expert for the I ~arried out in Turkey. The evidence 
indicates that she was a speaker at a seminar concerning the welfare of I I animals, and 
therefore further documents her expertise in the area of animal welfare. However, the Petitioner's 
participation in this and other international projects described above does not demonstrate that her 
work garnered acclaim at the national or international level. 
As noted above, the Director found that the Petitioner has served in a leading or critical role for 
organizations having a distinguished reputation. Although the Director did not identify the qualilying I 
role or organization under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we note that her service as I I for the government of the'-----~----' meets this criterion. 
The evidence indicates that in this role, in addition to leading the drafting and implementation of the I I the Petitioner worked with community organizations and 
improved pet adoption rates in the region. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her position with this 
agency as well as her membership on the Council of Animal Welfare (CAW) and the Board of 
Directors of the Spanish Network for the Development of Alternatives to Animal Experimentation 
(REMA) are indicative of her position at the top of her field. Regarding CAW, the evidence indicates 
that it is "a consultative and advisory body" whose composition is regulated by order of the 
government of thel I and that its members are appointed according to their title 
or position in local or regional government, education, professional associations and community 
organizations. Although the Petitioner's activity in CAW and within the regional government reflects 
her standing as a top animal welfare expert in thq lregion, it does not establish that she is one 
of the small percentage at the top of her field on a national or international basis. 
Turning to the Petitioner's appointment to REMA, the minutes of a meeting reflect that she joined as 
an 1._ __________ _.~' andl lof the activities of this organization, along with other 
government officials. It does not indicate that she was a member of the Board of Directors, nor does 
a letter from~ _______ ___, the organization's secretary. Further, althoughl I 
states in his letter that "members are selected based on outstanding achievements in their field," 
Article 23 ofREMA's statutes indicates that members are "entities or associations that have an interest 
5 
in the development of the purposes of the Association." More importantly, while her selection as an I lfor REMA reflects its recognition of her position in the regional government and her expertise 
in the animal welfare field, the record lacks evidence regarding the organization's reputation or 
standing within the field and any specific duties or projects that the Petitioner took on in this role. 
As we noted above, the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of other experts in her field is 
demonstrated by the appointment letter to thel I I · tes of th -ommittee's meetin s. 
In both roles, she evaluated contracts or bids relatinJ to animal welfare services over the 
course of: several years on behalf of the I This evidence farther demonstrates 
the influence the Petitioner has had in the field of animal welfare in the region for many years, but 
does not show that this influence extended beyond I Is borders. 
The Petitioner notes on appeal that her career in animal welfare has spanned 28 years, during which 
she has played important roles for several organizations. The evidence demonstrates that during this 
career, she led the development and implementation of new animal welfare laws and policies in the 
worked with and advised nonprofit organizations in the region, and 
~su-c--c--e-s_s_fo_l_ly_p_ro_m_o_te_d_t~he humane treatment and increased adoption o~ ] animals. 
Although the evidence shows that the Petitioner made animal presentations in Israel and Turkey, and 
served as an advisor on European Unionl !policies in Brazil, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that these activities brought her acclaim in her field at the national or international level, 
or were indicative of a standing as one of the small percentage at the top of her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8280460 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a performing artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, 
finding that the Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 1 We rejected the 
Petitioner's second appeal as improperly filed and dismissed her three subsequent motions to reopen. 2 
The matter is now before us again on a fourth motion to reopen. The Petitioner submits additional 
evidence and asserts that it establishes that she meets two additional evidentiary requirements at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We interpret "new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion 
and that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence that she has displayed her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of A-B-, ID# 3845653 (AAO Aug. 29, 2019). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Prior Decision 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the 
prior adverse decision. Here, the subject of the prior decision was our dismissal of the Petitioner's 
third motion to reopen. As such, the purpose of this decision is to examine any new facts and 
supporting evidence that pertain to the dismissal of that motion. 
With respect to our August 29, 2019 decision, we acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted new 
evidence related to her involvement as an actress in I . I a short film released in 2016. This 
evidence was intended to demonstrate that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criteria relating to a 
leading or critical role, high salary or other significantly high remuneration, and commercial success 
in the performing arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), (ix) and (x). She did not address or contest 
issues we raised in any of our prior decisions. 
We determined that, becaus~ the Petitiour filed her petition in October 2015, she cannot rely on her 
involvement in the 2016 filml to demonstrate her eligibility for this classification. Rather, 
a petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Nevertheless, we noted thJ the s:ibmitted evidence did not establish that the Petitioner performed in 
a leading or critical role i l or that the film qualifies as an organization or establishment 
that has a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We further noted that she did not 
submit evidence of her earnings in support of her claim that she commanded a high salary or other 
significant high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix). Finally, while the Petitioner provided evidence that I I was available on the 
Amazon Prime Video streaming service, she did not offer evidence that satisfied the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which requires evidence of "commercial successes [ of her 
work] ... as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales." 
Therefore, we determined that the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's third motion to 
reopen did not constitute "new facts," did not overcome concerns we had raised in our previous 
decision, and did not establish her eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
With the instant motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence in support of her claim that she 
meets both the leading or critical role criterion and the criterion relating to commercial success in the 
performing arts based on her role in I I However, she does not acknowledge our 
determination that she cannot rely on her involvement in a film released in 2016 to establish her 
eligibility at the time of filing this petition in October 2015. Again, we emphasize that a petitioner 
must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also Matter of 
Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). 
2 
ort of the leading or critical role criterion, the Petitioner refers to the submitted plot summary 
.---........ --,-----' noting that "the entire plot revolves around the lead character bringing my character 
.__ __ _.' However, she does not address our finding that she did not provide evidence demonstrating 
that this film is an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). Even if we could consider evidence that post-dates the filing of the petition and 
determined that the Petitioner held a critical role in the film, the documentation submitted would not 
satisfy all elements of this criterion. 
With respect to the commercial success criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), the Petitioner submits 
evidence in support of her claim that Amazon streaming services are available worldwide to "billions 
of people," that the Amazon Prime Video app is one of the most downloaded iPad apps, and that 
Amazon is recognized as one of the top brands in the world. She states that "Amazon does not release 
streaming rates for films" and therefore she cannot provide any figures for I I She 
emphasizes that "the fact that it is available in practically every country of the world is quite a 
significant achievement on its own and should not be taken lightly." The Petitioner's claim that the 
mere availability of a film or video on Amazon's streaming service should be sufficient to meet the 
commercial success criterion, which requires evidence of box office receipts or video sales relative to 
others, is not persuasive. 
Therefore, while the evidence submitted on motion is new, it does not overcome our previous 
determination that evidence that post-dates the filing of the petition cannot be relied on to establish 
the Petitioner's eligibility for this classification. Further, the evidence submitted with this motion does 
not overcome our previous conclusion that the Petitioner's involvement with the film I ldid 
not otherwise meet the leading or critical role or commercial success criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (x), either viewed alone or in the context of the evidence previously submitted to 
satisfy these criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reopen will be dismissed because the Petitioner has not submitted new facts 
demonstrating that she meets the initial evidentiary requirements for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8303594 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mathematics educator, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
established that he met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which 
he must meet at least three. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability or that his 
entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not meet at least three criteria. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a mathematics educator who has taught elementary and middle school students and 
coached competitive mathematics teams for these age levels in China. Most recently, he has been 
employed as the school principal and mathematics teacher for I I 
Education Training School. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner maintains that he submitted evidence to satisfy six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iii) Published material in professional publications or major media; 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in his field; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (ix) High salary or other high remuneration. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to judging and scholarship of scholarly articles. The record reflects that the Petitioner 
served on the judging committee of the~World Mathl I Competition (China trials) and 
that he has co-authored and edited mathematics textbooks and other educational publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misinterpreted and undervalued the significance of 
evidence submitted with respect to the remaining four claimed criteria. After reviewing all the 
2 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not meet at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner claims that he satisfies this criterion based on his receipt of the following:3 
• A certificate awarding the title of "China Mathematical Olympiad First Class Coach" by 
the Chinese Mathematical Olympiad Committee! , I 
• A certificate issuing the "Gold Award for Coaching" at the World Olympics Mathematics 
Competitil n (ChTa), based on "outstanding results" achieved by his students at China's 
final trials 
With resnect to the Pritioner's "First Class Coach" title, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I _ ofl I University, who states that he is associated with the 
China Mathematics Association and Mathematics Olympiad Committee. He indicates that according 
to the regulations of "China Olympics Mathematics" a "1st level coach" must "have a coaching record 
of winning national level competition as top three team" or "have a coaching record of winning at 
least 3 times, as top 3 team, at provincial level." In addition, I I stated that "the 
confirmation must be approved by the judging panel." 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted two additional reference letters 
that mention this title or award. I I who states that he is th~ I of the 
Organizing Committee of the World Olympics Math Competition (China), explains that "the standard" 
for awarding the First Level Coach title is: (1) "first, participating in the National Finals, the main 
instructors of the top three teams of the group"; and (2) "second, passing the training through the 
Chinese Mathematical Committee Olympic Committee Examinations and rigorous reviews will be 
eligible for propositions [sic] and judges in each division." He states that inl I the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 The Petitioner initially provided a certificate indicating that his essay won second prize at th~I I Conference of 
the National Mathematics Teaching and Research Institute (elementary school category) inc=J However, on appeal, 
the Petitioner does not mention this prize or contest the Director's determination that he did not demonstrate that it satisfies 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
Petitioner "successfully passed the assessment and won the title of National Mathematical Olympics 
National First Class Coach." 
The Petitioner's RFE response also included a second letter from.__ ________ __. He states 
that "the head coach of the top three teams in the final group will be evaluated. The winners will be 
awarded the title of China Mathematical Olympics first-level coach." He also states that "only the 
holders will be qualified to serve as judges and propositions [sic] for mathematics competitions in the 
country and in various regions." 
While all three of the submitted letters confirm the Petitioner's receipt of the First Class or First Level 
Coach award inLJ they do not contain consistent or sufficiently detailed information regarding the 
criteria for bestowing the title, which appears to be akin to a credential that allows a coach to serve as 
a judge than a "prize or award for excellence" as required by the regulation. We note that the certificate 
granting the Petitioner this title indicates that it was awarded "according to the Chinese Mathematical 
Olympiad Level Coaching Accreditation Regulations." The Petitioner did not nrorde a copy of these 
regulations but instead relied on the letters froml I and I whose statements 
lacked consistency. 
For example, I I initially stated that an individual could qualify for evaluation by coaching 
three top three teams at the provincial level, while the subsequent statements indicate that only those 
coaches whose teams place at the national finals may qualify. I !mentions that individuals 
must complete training and pass examinations in order to receive the title, whilel l's 
letters make no mention of these requirements. Overall, the information provided regarding the First 
Class Coach title appears to be incomplete, inconsistent, or both, and is not supported by corroborating 
evidence that would clarify the actual criteria used to bestow the title and the purpose for doing so. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that his First Level Coach title satisfies the plain language 
of this regulation. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under this criterion based on his "Gold Award for Coaching" 
received at the World Olympics Mathematics Jompetiyon (China), based on "outstanding results" 
achieved by his students at China's final trials i Initially, the Petitioner submitted a copy of 
the certificate without providing additional information regarding the award or its national or 
international significance. 
In response to the RFE, counsel for the Petitioner stated that the "Golden Coach A ward" is given to 
"only one head coach whose team captured gold medal in the national finals with full scores." In his 
letter J !states: 
The Organizing Committee of the World Olympic Mathematical Competition (China) 
Competition awarded the title of"Golden Coach" to the main instructor (1 person) who 
won the special gold medal ( out of the score) in the finals. So far, only nine coaches 
have won the highest honor in the Olympic Mathematical Competition ... , including 
[the Petitilner], lho won the title of"Olympic Mathematical Competition Gold Medal 
Coach" in 
4 
~----~Is letter also references the Petitioner's "Golden Coach" title and states that "the total 
number of outstanding coaches who won this award in China is less than ten." The Director 
acknowledged these letters but determined that the letters alone were insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner's "Gold Award for Coaching" is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
for excellence in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a document titled i IWorld Mathematical Olympiad 
'China Region': Notice of Competition and Selection of National Team." According to this document, 
medals and certificates (including seven gold medals), are awarded to the top 20 teams, with "the head 
coach of the special gold team at the national final (1 person)" receiving a "gold coach award." The 
document indicates that the results of the national finals are announced on the "World Cup" website 
(www.womcn.com) but the Petitioner did not provide the results from this website or any other 
publicity or public announcement related to the competition at which he received his award. 
While this evidence appears to confirm that only one coach receives this award annually, it does not 
address the Director's concern regarding the lack of evidence demonstrating that the award is a 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. This documentation does not 
demonstrate the recognition that the "gold coach" award received in the field beyond the awarding 
entity itself Without additional evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the field recognizes 
the aforementioned awards at a national or international level as awards for excellence. In light of the 
above, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted two articles that are about him and relating to his 
work in the field: 
• 
.__ ___ _.' Published on Cultural People's Daily Media Plarform, sourced from Min 
Shen Weeki ht ://www.msweekl .com J 12019 . 
• 
.__ ______ __.published in Global Chinese Times,.__ __ _.2019. 
The Petitioner emphasized that the circulation of People's Daily is the ninth largest in the world among 
paid daily newspapers, according to 2014 rankings from W AN-IFRA' s World Press Trends Data. The 
Petitioner described Global Chinese Times as "a major Chinese newspaper widely circulated in the 
states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut," but did not provide evidence of the paper's 
circulation figures or ranking in comparison to other publications. 4 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged that People's Daily appeared on the 
W AN-IFRA report as a major daily newspaper as of 2014 but noted that the submitted rankings were 
outdated. Further, the Director emphasized that the submitted ranking list did not include Min Sheng 
Weekly or Cultural People's Daily Media Platform. In response, the Petitioner submitted additional 
evidence in support of its claim that People's Daily qualifies as major media in China, including more 
recent documentation regarding its ranking among Chinese newspapers. The Petitioner did not farther 
pursue his claim that the Global Chinese Times, which appears have an intended audience consisting 
of Chinese language speakers living in the New York metropolitan area, is a professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director acknowledged that People's 
Daily appears on rankings of top newspapers, but again noted that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence related to Min Sheng Weekly or Cultural People's Daily Media Platform. The Director stated 
that "[ w ]hile USCIS notes that Cultural People's Daily Media Platform may be a component of 
People's Daily, this does not correspond to the published material presented." 
On appeal, counsel asserts: 
[The Director] misunderstood the "Cultural People's Daily Media Platform." It 
actually is a section of People's Daily, that is particularly designated for the topic of 
cultural events called "cultural media platform." In essence, the media report of the 
[Petitioner] is in People's Daily, on its section of Cultural Media Platform. This 
criterion, hence, has been met. 
Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 
1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements 
must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and 
declarations. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence establishing that "Cultural People's Daily Media 
Platform" is a "section" of People's Daily, or that the I I 2019 article about him appeared in the 
print edition or online edition (www.people.cn) of People's Daily. 
The individual who translated the article provided a URL address indicating that the material he translated 
was from the website of Minsheng Weekly (msweekly.com), and we note that the article can be found at 
the address provided. As the record does not contain evidence of the circulation figures for Minsheng 
Weekly, or evidence demonstrating that the article was published in the print or online editions of People's 
Daily, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "experts in the field across China universally consider [his] work 
important and his contributions significant" and points to testimonial evidence in the record and his 
claimed service as a "principal lecturer" on a children's mathematics television program. While the 
Petitioner generally asserts that the Director "downplayed the significance" of the testimonial 
evidence, we find no error in the Director's analysis of the submitted reference letters. The Director 
considered their content and concluded that they did not specify how the Petitioner's contributions 
rise to a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. If testimonial 
evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for a petitioner to submit 
corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). The opinions of experts in 
the field are not without weight and we have considered them below. 
The Petitioner provided several letters in support of the petition, but the authors did not specifically 
address how he has made an original contribution of major significance to the field of mathematics 
education. For example, the initial evidence included a letter from I I who is identified as the I !Mathematics Education Professional Committee of the China Education Association. 
The letter ap ears to have been submitted to confirm the Petitioner's receipt of a second prize award 
for his essay~------r----i:-r======r~ at theONational Mathematics Conference for 
Elementary and High Schools~~ I I commented that this was a "major national event" 
organized by the China Education Association, and explained that out of over 1,000 essays, a panel of 
five scholars chose seven first prize winners, 18 second prize winners and 56 third prize winners. The 
letter does not discuss how the Petitioner's prize-winning essay, or the curriculum reform issues 
addressed therein, has widely impacted or influenced the field, whether it has been published in a 
journal or other professional publication, or whether it has been cited by others. The record, therefore, 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner's essay is recognized in the field as an original 
contribution of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also references the letters from I I ofl I University. 
One of his letters describes the criteria for confirmation as a "First Level Coach" of China Olympics 
Mathematics but does not discuss the Petitioner. The second letter froml I confirms that 
the Petitioner has received the titles of "First Class Coach" and "Golden Coach," and notes that he 
served as a judge in the0 World Olympic Mathematics Competition. I I states that 
the Petitioner "was recognized by the world for his outstanding talents and outstanding achievements" 
and that he "has made outstanding contributions to the popularization of the Chinese Olympic 
Mathematical Competition." While he summarizes the Petitioner's success as a mathematics coach 
and confirms his experience as a judge, he does not expand upon his claim that the Petitioner has 
individually contributed to the popularization of this mathematics competition in China or explain how 
his involvement with these competitions is recognized as an "original" contribution, or one that is 
majorly significant to the mathematics education field based on its impact and influence. 
Similarly, the letter froml !mentions the Petitioner's First Class Coach title, his experience as 
a judge of the~ Chinese national finals of the World Olympic Math Competition, and his 
participation as a member of the organizing committee for the competition's trials in China. He states 
5 We note that the Petitioner's LJd certificate indicates that he received his second prize award (for an essay with 
essentially the same title) at the annual cop.fu:f;nce of the National Mathematics Teaching and Research Institute in 
c=Jnot at the0annual conference held in LJ Based on the submitted cover letter, the Petitioner did not claim that 
he earned two different awards. 
7 
that the Petitioner has made "significant contributions to the Olympic Mathematical Competition 
(China) trials," but does not identify a specific novel or original contribution or explain how the 
Petitioner's involvement in these trials is consistent with a contribution of major significance that has 
had a major impact or influence in the field. 
Finally, the record includes a letter from I 11 lofl l's Press, 
confirming that the Petitioner has served as a chapter author and editor of a series of mathematics 
textbooks for elementary schools published by his company. He states that, over a period of ten years, 
"the total publication of those books written/edited by [the Petitioner] has been in excess of 900,000 
copies" and "they are among most widely circulated publications in the field." The record contains 
several Chinese Ian ua e books alon with translations of their covers. One of the books, 'I I 
'-------~----~~____.' a I I math book, identifies the Petitioner as an 
author/editor an~---~,......... s Publishing House as the publisher. The version provided is a "10 
Years Collector's Edition" whose cover states "Classic of 10 years, over a hundred thousand copies 
sold." The record does not contain supporting evidence indicating the actual number of copies 
published, sold or circulated in Chinese school systems. 
This evidence confirms that the Petitioner co-authored and co-edited a I I math textbook that is 
being used in some Chinese classrooms, but is not sufficient to establish that it is based on original 
concepts that are not found in other grade school math books, or to establish that this book and the 
Petitioner's other academic publications are recognized by the field as having a significant impact or 
influence on mathematics education in China. 
Overall, the letters, as well as other evidence in the record, reflect that the Petitioner's activities in his 
field extend beyond classroom teaching to authoring and editing educational mathematics materials 
and participating as a coach and sometimes judge for Chinese Mathematics Olympiad competitions 
The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of attention he has received for these 
activities reflects that the field of mathematics education has regarded his work as authoritative or 
impactful. The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to 
be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
In addition to the submitted reference letters and evidence surrounding his publications and 
Mathematics Olympiad activities, the Director acknowledged counsel's claim that the Petitioner "has 
served as 'principal lecturer' at the TV program titled~--~-----------' which 
was broadcasted through I I Education TV Station." The Director correctly observed that 
counsel's assertion was not supported by any corroborating evidence of the Petitioner's participation 
in the referenced television program. On appeal, counsel references the Petitioner's service as a 
lecturer on this program and asserts that it "significantly promoted mathematics education." However, 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
8 
the record remains devoid of documentary evidence corroborating counsel's assertion that the 
Petitioner appeared on.__ ______________ __. and otherwise lacks any information 
about this program and its influence. Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 
503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent 
evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his salary and other remuneration received 
from.__ ___________ ~Education Training School. Initially, he submitted a letter 
from the school's vice president, who stated that the Petitioner served as principal and math teacher, 
with an annual salary of RMB 450,000 for the years 2013 through 2016. 
In his cover letter, counsel stated that the Petitioner's annual salary is equivalent to $72,000. He cited 
figures for middle and high school math teachers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and Glassdoor 
in support of his claim that the Petitioner's annual salary is "higher than that of top 10% of math 
teachers in the United States, not to mention the average income of Chinese is only 30% of that of 
Americans." The initial evidence did not include supporting documentation related to the currency 
conversion used, the referenced comparative salary data, or the "average income of Chinese" relative 
to Americans. Further, we note that, as the Petitioner has only worked in China, salary surveys 
reflecting U.S. wages are not relevant to a determination of whether his salary is high in relation to 
others in his field. 8 
In the RFE, the Director requested copies of foreign tax documents or other evidence demonstrating 
the Petitioner's receipt of the stated salary froni O !Education Training School, and additional 
evidence to establish that the salary is high in relation to others, such as "geographical or position 
appropriate compensation surveys." The Petitioner did not respond to this request or reference this 
criterion in his response to the RFE. Accordingly, the Director determined that he did not meet the 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner now submits: (1) a copy of his employment contract indicating that his total 
remuneration package is RMB 486,000, paid annually; and (2) a "domestic payment business payment 
recent" showing that I I Educational Training School transferred RMB 486,000 to the 
Petitioner's Bank of China account in January 2018. In his brief: counsel cites U.S. salary figures for 
math teachers from Glassdoor, Payscale and ZipRecruiter and reiterates his assertion that "the 
[Petitioner] is receiving an annual salary of $70,000/yr which is equal to or higher than top 10% in the 
United States." He indicates that he is enclosing copies of the referenced salary surveys, but the 
submission on appeal does not include this documentation. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11 (instructing that individuals "working in different 
countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country"). 
9 
We note that the Petitioner does not claim that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to 
meet this criterion or claim that the Director's determination was otherwise erroneous based on the 
evidence before him at the time of the decision. When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was 
put on notice of an evidentiary deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we 
will not accept evidence regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., 
Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
Regardless, while the Petitioner has now submitted documentation of his past earnings, the record still 
lacks any comparative salary information for the Petitioner's occupation and geographical location. 
Even if the appeal submission included copies of the salary surveys referenced by counsel, we note 
that the relevant comparative information would relate to the occupation of school principal in the 
Petitioner's geographic location in China, rather than math teachers employed in the United States. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that this criterion has not been met. 
B. Reserved Issues 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has 
not met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required. Since the 
identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby 
reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether he seeks "to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" and whether his entry "will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States," under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii)-(iii) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8260597 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a judo and sambo athlete and coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least 
three. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to the 
United States to continue work in his area of expertise, or that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a sambo and judo athlete and coach and indicates that he intends to work as a judo 
instructor in the United States. The Petitioner claims that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, and, in the alternative, that he has satisfied six of the ten initial regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a~' internationally recognized award. The Petitioner claims that his bronze 
medal awarded at thel__JWorld Sambo Championship is a major, internationally recognized award 
and therefore constitutes a qualifying one-time achievement. 
Given Congress's intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have 
risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one­
time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying 
as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted 
in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. Given that the House Report specifically 
cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement, examples of one-time awards which 
enjoy major, international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and (most 
relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, 
stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the 
top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, is a familiar name to the public 
at large and includes a large cash prize. 
While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement 
without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the alien's field as one of the top awards in 
that field. 
2 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his bronze medal finish in his weight category at the World Sambo 
Championship inc=] including the official results of the competition as posted by the International 
Sambo Federation (FIAS), the international governing body of the sport. 
While the Petitioner's bronze medal is a notable athletic achievement, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." 
The Petitioner did not present evidence, for example, establishing that the competition is widely 
reported by international media, is recognized by the general public, or gamers attention comparable 
to other major, globally recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. He provided evidence 
that his receipt of the award was covered by a sports publication in his native country of Tajikistan, 
but the record does not contain evidence of international coverage of this event. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his receipt of a bronze medal at the c=Jw orld 
Sambo Championships meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner maintains that he has satisfied six of the ten 
criteria, discussed below. 
We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not show that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because the record did not 
establish the prizes and awards, he has received are nationally or internationally recognized. However, 
we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner's bronze medal received at the Dw orld 
Sambo Championship meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based upon his former membership on the Tajikistan 
National Sambo Team and on the I !Veteran Judo and Sambo Team. 
The president and the secretary general of the Sambo Federation of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well 
as other individuals who claimed to have recommended the Petitioner for membership, submitted 
letters attesting to the Petitioner's membership on Tajikistan's national team from I I 
3 
These letters uniformly state that 'Tajikistan National Sambo Team membership requires outstanding 
achievements in the field of Sambo, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in 
the field of Sambo." The individuals providing letters did not specify the Petitioner's qualifying 
achievements or identify thl exp1rts who judged them. Although the letters indicate that the Petitioner 
was admitted to the team in based on his "outstanding achievements," the record does not identify 
his achievements in the sport of sambo prior to 2003. 
Similarly, a letter from I I head coach of the I I Veteran Judo and Sambo 
Team, states that this team "requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by nationally 
and internationally recognized experts in the fields of judo and sambo." The phrase "outstanding 
achievements ... as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts" appears multiple times 
in each of the letters submitted in support of this criterion, but this repetition of this language does not 
suffice to establish eligibility. Cf Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajf'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990) (merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations 
does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof). In addition, in comparing the letters, they contain large 
portions of identical or virtually identical language consistent with a common source. If testimonial 
material lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the Petitioner to furnish 
corroborative items. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that letters repeating the regulatory 
language are not sufficient and requested the team's or association's constitution or bylaws (to 
establish membership requirements) and evidence that the admitting authorities are recognized 
national or international experts. 
In response, the Petitioner did not submit the requested evidence or ex lain its absence, nor did the 
response address the requirements of membership on the Veteran Judo and Sambo 
Team. The Petitioner submitted a second letter from~------~ ational Sambo Federation 
of Tajikistan, who names some current and former members of the Tajikistan National Sambo Team 
and their achievements. He states that the Petitioner was accepted "at the same level of membership" 
as the listed athletes, and as such, "his acceptance to the team clearly demonstrates membership in the 
team that requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field of Sambo." He also reiterates that the Petitioner was on the team 
froml I 
In the denial notice, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted objective evidence 
to satisfy this criterion. In particular, the Director noted the absence of documentary evidence to 
establish the requirements for the Petitioner's claimed memberships. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the referenced teams do 
not require outstanding achievements of their members and by finding that "the Team does not qualify 
as an organization, as INA does not define an organization in this context," although the Director did 
not make such a finding. The Petitioner does not address or rebut the Director's determination that 
the record lacks documentary evidence of the referenced teams' membership requirements. 
The letters provided are not sufficiently specific with respect to the national team membership 
requirements or selection processes and the record does not contain corroborating evidence, such as 
4 
official rules or procedures from the national federation of the sport. The Petitioner must show that he 
meets every element of a given criterion. Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the submitted evidence does not satisfy this criterion and we agree with that 
determination. Specifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the author of the material.1 
The record contains one print article published in the Tajik newspaper Varzish-Sport in~I -----~ 
The article is about the Petitioner and his receipt of the bronze medal at the World Sambo 
Championship held inl I and it includes the title, date and author of the material, along with 
an English translation. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence establishing that Varvish-Sport is a professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 2 The Petitioner submitted a letter from the 
publication's "director" who states that Varvish-Sport, a newspaper focused on sports news, is 
published twice a week. According to the publisher, it is "the largest sports publication in Tajikistan," 
with a total circulation of "more than 7 thousand copies" and a broader reach through its website and 
social media. The self-serving information from the publisher is not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
publication qualifies as major media. USCIS need not rely solely on self-serving assertions. 3 The 
Petitioner did not provide evidence showing the distribution of Varzish-Sport relative to other Tajikistani 
media to demonstrate that the submitted article was published in a major medium. Further, the record 
does not contain evidence that the submitted article was posted on the publication's website or include 
circulation figures for the website relative to other online publications. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is 
"self-serving." See e.g., Matter of S-A-. 22 l&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) ( citing cases). The Board also held. however: 
"We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where 
available." Id. 
5 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated that, between 2007 and 2009, he served as a judge "at the 
official national judo and sambo championships" where he 'judged the work of other athletes in judo 
and sambo." He submitted a letter from I I of the Sambo Federation of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, who stated that the Petitioner "is the judge of national category of the 1st class wrestling 
sambo.'1 k letter lists 20 events held in Tajikistan between 2006 and 2013 and indicates 
that the Petitioner served at each of these events in one of the following capacities: deputy chief judge, 
chief judge, deputy chief referee, deputy chief secretary, and chief secretary. The listed events 
including city championships, republican championships, and republican tournaments. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged I I's letter, but advised the Petitioner that he did 
not provide sufficient details regarding his duties as a judge to demonstrate whether the referee, judge 
and secretary roles listed in that letter involved judging the work or skills of competitors. The Director 
further noted that the record lacked evidence such as official competition rules for the listed 
tournaments to demonstrate that the Petitioner's participation met the requirements of this criterion. 
In response, the Petitioner reiterated that he served as a judge at the official national judo and sambo 
championships in "2007-2009" and 'judged the work of other athletes in judo and sambo." The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit any additional evidence related to this criterion 
in response to the RFE. However, the record reflects that RFE response included a letter fromD 
.__ _______ ____,of the Tajikistan National Sambo Federation, who confirmed on behalf of the 
federation that "between 2007-2009, [the Petitioner] served as a judge at official national Sambo 
championships, where he judged the performance of other Sambo established athletes." D I I stated that his duties as a judge included: monitoring referees; disqualification of athletes; 
imposing scoring penalties; and adjudicating final results of a competition. 
We find that the two letters from officials of the Tajikistan National Sambo Federation lack 
consistency regarding the Petitioner's service as a judge are therefore insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. Although I I provides a list of 20 competitions, and 
identifies the Petitioner's role, and the year and location of each event, his statement that the Petitioner 
served as a judge at events held in Tajikistan between 2006 and 2013 is inconsistent with the 
Petitioner's own claim that he served as a judge only between 2007 and 2009, a claim that is repeated 
b~ I 
Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more 
or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held 
that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See e.g., Matter of S-A-, 
22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only 
encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where 
available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need 
for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Here, the Petitioner relied solely on the aforementioned letters and did not submit corroborating 
evidence, such as his documentation corroborating! l's statement that he held a "l st class 
wrestling sambo" judging credential, his event-specific judging credentials, or official records from 
one or more events in which he claims he served as a judge, to show that he both possesses the 
necessary qualifications as a judge and actually participated as a judge in the claimed national 
6 
championship competitions and other events. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner did not establish 
that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 4 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner contends that he meets this 
criterion "by virtue of winning major national and international competitions" and that his 
"accomplishments in his athletic field constitute a contribution of major significance to the sport of 
Sambo." He argues that the Director did not give appropriate weight to the submitted expert 
testimonials. 
In addition to the letters already discussed, the Petitioner provided letters from fellow sambo athletes I 11 I, I l and I I in support of this criterion. The 
letters are all similar in content and note the Petitioner's membership on the Tajikistan national team 
(as both an athlete and assistant head coach), indicate that he served as a judge from 2007 to 2009, 
describe him as "one of the few who has developed his own unique style in judo and sambo, which 
allows him to excel in a variety of judo and sambo forms at the level that is truly superb," and 
summarize his results in "major national and international" sambo and judo competitions. These 
letters also state that "[the Petitioner's] accomplishments in the field of sambo earned him the 
distinguished title of Master of Sport, International Class" in sambo, which is "granted only to those 
outstanding athletes who have achieved success in major international tournaments .... " 
The Petitioner's achievements in sambo and judo competitions and tournaments are more relevant to 
the awards category of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), a separate and distinct criterion that he 
has already satisfied. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three 
separate criteria, we will generally not consider here evidence relating to the awards criterion. 
Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish that his competitive athletic results were indicative of 
original athletic contributions of major significance in the overall field. 5 Likewise, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how his "Master of Sport, International Class, in Sambo" qualifies as an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. He did not show, for example, that the title was awarded 
to him because he had made an original contribution that significantly impacted the sport or explain 
how it is otherwise majorly significant in the sport. 
Although the authors summarized the Petitioner's career and highlighted his achievements, they did 
not establish how they reflect original contributions of major significance in the field. In addition, 
having a diverse or unique skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself Rather, 
the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and abilities 
to impact the field at a significant level. In the case here, the Petitioner did not establish how his 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although work may be "original." this fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 Id. at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
7 
physical abilities and "unique style" are viewed as an original contribution, as well as how they have 
significantly influenced the field. 
The letters submitted primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in his sport without 
providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the Petitioner has competed in competitions and tournaments at the national and international 
level and also in related activities such as coaching, he has not shown how these activities equate to 
"original" athletic contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
As explained above, we find that although the Petitioner satisfies the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), he does not meet any additional criteria on appeal relating to membership in 
associations, published materials, judging, and original contributions. Although he argues and submits 
evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), we need not reach this additional ground. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 8 Similarly, since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of 
the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Director's separate determinations that the 
Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" 
and that his entry would "substantially benefit prospectively the United States" under section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach.) 
8 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8258074 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist and author of poetry and literature , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence of a one-time achievement or, in the alternative , evidence that he meets at least three 
of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal because it did not include a statement in support of the appeal that specifically 
identified an erroneous conclusion of law or fact in the Director's decision. Although the Petitioner 
indicated that he would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to our office within 30 days of filing 
the appeal, the record did not include a supplemental brief at the time of adjudication, more than four 
months after the appeal was filed. 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The Petitioner 
submits a brief and additional evidence addressing the Director' s decision and the merits of his case, as 
well as evidence to support his claim that he timely submitted "a brief or evidence" to our office within 
30 days of filing his appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. 
I. LAW 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements and show 
proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l). A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
establish that we based our decision on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. We may 
grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has either submitted new facts supported by 
documentary evidence sufficient to warrant reopening his appeal and/or established that our decision to 
summarily dismiss his appeal was based on an incorrect application of USCIS law or policy. 
The regulations provide that an officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal 
when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of 
fact for the appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). At the time he filed his appeal on April 25, 2019, the 
Petitioner did not submit a statement identifying any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as 
a basis for the appeal, as instructed on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. The Petitioner 
also submitted no brief or evidence with Form I-290B but stated that he would submit those materials 
to our office within 30 days. When we reviewed the record of proceeding several months later, it did 
not include any supplement to the appeal. As a result, we summarily dismissed the appeal, because 
the appeal, as presented to us, did not identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in 
the Director's denial of the petition as a basis for the appeal. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he timely mailed a "brief;affidavit and additional evidence" to our 
office by Federal Express (FedEx) on May 22, 2009, using its overnight service. However, his 
submission on motion does not include a copy of the "brief/affidavit and additional evidence" that he 
claims to have mailed. 
The Petitioner has provided an imjge of a 1edEx mailing label, addressed to our office, for a package 
shipped by 'I • I' in New York on May 22, 2019. He also provides a FedEx 
delivery confirmation with a matching tracking number, showing that the package was delivered to our 
office on May 23, 2019. We note, however, that there is no information on the mailing label linking the 
package to the Petitioner, as he is not identified as the sender. He has not provided, for example, a 
receipt indicating that he paid the named shipper a fee for mailing the package. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen as the new evidence does not overcome our basis for dismissing 
the appeal. The Petitioner submits an inconclusive FedEx shipping and delivery confirmation without 
providing evidence of the documents that he purportedly had delivered to our office. We cannot reopen 
the appeal to consider a timely-filed brief if we do not have that brief or a copy of the brief 
Without evidence that the Petitioner submitted a brief or other substantive statement in which he 
specifically identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as a basis for the appeal, he 
has not established with the current motion that he was entitled to a decision on the merits of his case on 
appeal. 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
We will also dismiss the motion to reconsider, because the Petitioner has not shown that the summary 
dismissal was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. The evidence 
of record, at that time, did not include any supplement to the appeal and still does not include any 
supplemental evidence submitted in support of the appeal. Given the record before us on appeal, the 
summary dismissal decision was consistent with USCIS regulations and policy. 
We will not consider the newly submitted motion brief discussing the merits of the case absent evidence 
that we summarily dismissed the appeal in error. The Petitioner has not provided such evidence or 
shown that the matter should be reopened or reconsidered. Accordingly, the combined motion will be 
dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7163508 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur and marketing specialist , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner established 
that he met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must 
satisfy at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to conduct a thorough review of the evidence . 
He maintains that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise qualified 
for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur and marketing specialist who has worked in marketing and 
advertising in Brazil, co-founded a job search platform, established a non-profit organization, and 
written books and articles on various subjects. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets five of the ten criteria, relating to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, published material in major media, original contributions of major 
significance, leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and high 
salary or other remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (viii) and (ix). 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the five claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director either overlooked or erred in his assessment of evidence submitted 
with respect to the criteria. 
Upon review, we agree that the Director's decision lacks a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted 
in support of the petition with respect to three of the five claimed criteria and does not acknowledge 
certain evidence and arguments the Petitioner submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE). 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
As we do not find that the record as presently constituted establishes the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
benefit sought, we cannot sustain the appeal; however, we will withdraw the Director's decision and 
remand the matter for farther review and entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
2 
First, with respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Director stated 
in his request for evidence (RFE) that the Petitioner "provided several articles in which the [Petitioner] 
is mentioned or quoted as well as articles promoting [his] business." The Director advised the 
Petitioner in the RFE that the submitted articles were not about him and his work in the field and could 
not satisfy this criterion. In the denial decision, the Director implied that the Petitioner did not address 
the criterion in the RFE response and concluded that the criterion had not been met. 
However, the Petitioner did in fact address this criterion in the RFE response, noting that two of the 
three submitted articles interview him and discuss his educational and professional experience and 
career highlights, and therefore are about him and relating to his work in the field. The Petitioner 
raised valid oints and we a ree that the articles titled 
.__ ___ _.' and .__ ______________ _.are about the Petitioner and his work as an 
entrepreneur. Because the Director dismissed these published articles as promotional materials, he 
did not reach a determination as to whether they were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Accordingly, we will 
remand this matter for the Director to re-examine the evidence submitted under this criterion, and to 
evaluate whether the articles mentioned above, which were published by several online media sources, 
satisfy all elements of this criterion. 
As noted, the Petitioner also claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
him to establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. In his cover 
letter accompanying the petition, the Petitioner included a 30-page discussion of the evidence he was 
submitting under this criterion, which was attached as exhibits 36 through 97. These exhibits included 
evidence of his advertising campaigns, evidence related to the companies and non-profit organizations 
that he founded, a public installation that he co-created atl I in Brazil, a prize program 
for young professionals in marketing that he established, books that he authored and published, and 
eight testimonial letters discussing his work. 
In addressing this criterion in the RFE, the Director stated: "You have provided evidence of several 
successful advertising campaigns," but did not acknowledge any of the other evidence provided with 
the initial submission. In response, counsel for the Petitioner expressed concern as to whether the 
Director had sufficiently reviewed the initial evidence, emphasized the relevance of some of that 
evidence, and highlighted passages from both previously submitted and newly submitted expert 
opinion letters. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted testimonial evidence in addition to "evidence of several successful advertising 
campaigns." However, in addressing the testimonial evidence, the Director did not refer to any 
specific letters, and instead generally referenced "letters from customers" and letters "from college 
professors," two categories that do not encompass the dozen or more letters provided. The Director 
also mentioned a need for corroborating evidence to support statements made in testimonials, but once 
again did not acknowledge the other documentary evidence included with the initial submission. 
Given the amount and type of evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we find the Director's 
brief analysis does not adequately inform the Petitioner of his reasons for determining that the evidence 
submitted, considered individually and collectively, does not meet the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). As this matter will be remanded, the Director should re-examine the evidence 
submitted to satisfy the original contributions criterion and make a new determination that takes into 
account this discussion. 
Finally, with respect to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director emphasized 
that the Petitioner did not submit additional evidence relating to the criterion in response to the RFE. 
However, the record reflects that the Petitioner did in fact address this criterion in the RFE response, 
by clarifying the previously submitted evidence, and by submitting additional evidence. As the 
Director did not take the RFE response into account, he should make a new determination that 
considers all evidence in the record. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to meet the criteria 
relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director's analysis of these two 
criteria considers the initial evidence and the Petitioner's response to the RFE and provided the 
Petitioner with a sufficient explanation of the Director's reasons for determining that the criteria had 
not been met. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria after re-examining the 
evidence related to the published materials, original contributions, and high salary criteria discussed 
above, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8292721 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a taekwondo athlete and trainer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least 
three. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming to the 
United States to continue work in his area of expertise, or that his entry would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he satisfies six of the ten evidentiary criteria and is otherwise 
qualified for the requested classification . 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not meet at least three criteria. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a taekwondo athlete and coach who has trained in thel I style of the sport. 
The record reflects that he holds a 4th degree black belt inl ltaekwondo and the rank of 6th 
degree black belt from thel I Martial Arts Federation. In addition, he provided 
evidence that he is a Certified Master Instructor of thel bystem oftaekwondo. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets six of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), 
summarized below: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii) Published materials about him and relating to his work; 
• (iv) Judging the work of others in the same field; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii) Leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
The Petitioner provided the following "summary list" of "his major national and international 
tournament victories":2 
• 1995 
• 2001 
• 2004 
• 2005 
• 2006 
• 2012 
• 2014 
• 2015 
• 2015 
• 2017 
• 2018 Championsh~­
~-----------'-'O""-"',en Championship 
World Cup.__ __ ----.,,, Taekwondo Championship 3rd place 
2nd place 
Absolute Champion 
1st place 
3rd place 
3rd place 
1st place 
1st place 
1st place 
2nd place 
3rd place 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence, such as award certificates, photographs of medals, and/ or 
official event results, for some of the awards listed, including the 1995 I I International 
Tournament, and the 20011 lchampionship. As he did not establish that he received these 
awards, we will not farther address them. Similarly, the Petitioner did not provide evidence related to 
his 3rd place finish at the 2012....._ _____ _. International Championship. He provided a black 
and white copy of a photograph of a medal that states I 12013" but it was not 
accompanied by an award certificate or any information regarding the tournament or the national or 
international recognition associated with the award. 
The Petitioner provided co,ies of his "diplomas of pa1cioatrn" for the 20osl I I _ Championship and the 2006 World Championship, indicating that 
he finished first and third, respectively, in the "sparrin division." The Petitioner also provided a 
reference letter from the I lof Taekwondo who states that the Petitioner , 
won the title of "absolute world champion in the weight category over~-=------' in 2004, but 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 The list also included three events in which the Petitioner indicates that he finished as a "finalist" but did not receive a 
"prize or award" as required by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
he did not provide his award certificate, medal, or official event results. The letter from .... l ____ ~ 
does not identify the event at which the Petitioner received the "absolute champion" title. 
The Petitioner also provided his award certificates related to Taekwondo tournaments. 
The certificates indicate that he achieved a first lace finish in the 
Championship held atl I Academ in in 2015; a first._p-la_c_e_f_in-i-sh_a_t -th_e_2_n--:d-.---......, 
I I Cha~oiousbio hejd in.__ ___ __.in 2017, and two other first place finishes in events 
described only as l._ _____ _,_Taekwondo Tournament" in 2016 and 2017. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the record lacked evidence to 
establish that he has received nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his 
field. The Director suggested additional evidence that he could submit in support of this criterion, 
such as evidence of the reputation of the organizations that granted the awards or prizes, media 
coverage of the events, and the geographic scope of the competitions. The Director also requested, 
for each award, a copy of the award certificate, a clear photograph of the actual award, and a public 
announcement from the granting organization. 
In response, the Petitioner maintained that he had provided "extensive evidence" in support of this 
criterion. Nevertheles, in resoorcse to the RFE, he provided a letter attributed tol lwho 
indicates that he is the~ __ _,ofi ITaekwondo for Kazakhstan. The letter is not on this 
organization's letterhead and does not include any contact information fo~ I He states: 
In accordance with the Unified Calendar of Inter-regional, National and International 
Physical Culture and Sports Events in the Republic of Kazakhstan which is approved 
every year by order of the Ministry of Sports, Tourism and Youth Affairs of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan, one major athletic competition at the Uzbekistan 
Championship and Kazakhstan Cup levels is held during the calendar year in the sport 
of taekwondo. Thus an athlete has only one opportunity to win the title Champion of 
Kazakhstan, or the Kazakhstan Cup, per calendar year. 
We note that there is no evidence that the Petitioner has won a Kazakhstan championship or national 
cup event or any event associated with the Kazakhstan Ministry of Sports during the course of his 
athletic career, although the letter appears to focus, in part, on establishing the national significance of 
these events. In addition, we note that the reference to an "Uzbekistan Championship" in a letter 
attributed to a Kazakhstan sports official raises questions regarding the source of the letter. Much of 
the letter also focuses on the "Master of Sports" title and the Taekwondo achievements required for 
such title; however, the Petitioner neither claims nor provides evidence that he has earned this title. 
Finally,! lrefers to "the reputation of the organizers of International Taekwondo Competitions 
in which [the Petitioner] took part" noting that the reputation of these organizations is "beyond doubt." 
Specificall , the letter lists: World Taekwondo Federation (WT , International Taekwondo Federation 
ITF 
.__ ________________________________ ____.and Ministry 
of Sport of Kazakhstan as the sponsors of the events in which the Petitioner has competed. The 
evidence does not demonstrate the Petitioner has competed in any event sponsored by I I 
.__ _____________ _,. I Is letter does not address the reputation of any of the 
4 
listed sponsors apart from WT, which is identified as the international federation governing the sport 
oftaekwondo and the international body recognized by the International Olympic Committee. 
While the Petitioner's certificates and medals indicate that he has participated in events sanctioned or 
sponsored by .__ _______ _. and I I the RFE response did not expressly 
address the reputation of these rganizitions or the national or international significance of the specific 
awards the Petitioner received. and.__ ______ ~appear to be training academies rather 
than being among the several governing bodies in the sport of taekwondo. While the evidence 
demonstrates that I I has an international reach with academies in the United States and 
several other countries, we cannot determine based on the evidence submitted that a I 1w orld 
Championship medal receives the same recognition in the sport as a WT or ITF sponsored world 
championship. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that his awards are "in no way local or regional in nature." However, 
the Director did not determine that the Petitioner had won only local or regional awards. The issue for 
this criterion is not whether an individual competed in national or international competitions but 
whether the bestowed prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. Here, the Petitioner did not submit evidence regarding the stature or recognition of his 
awards received in international competitions. The Petitioner has therefore not established that he 
meets all elements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
At the time of filing the Petitioner indicated that he meets this criterion based on his membership on the 
Kazakhstan National Taekwondo Team since 2005 and further indicated that he serves as I lof the in Kazakhstan. In support of his claim, he submitted a " ertificate of 
Approval" fro ~---~Taekwondo International appointing him as [ pf the~----~ 
in Kazakhstan in 2013. 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged this evidence, but advised the Petitioner that it was insufficient to 
establish that he had been granted membership in an association which requires outstanding achievements 
of members as judged by recognized national or international experts. The Director requested that the 
Petitioner provide additional documentation, such as the section of the association's constitution or 
bylaws discussing the qualifications for membership and the qualifications required of those who review 
potential members. 
In res onse to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I I in his capacity as the 
of the Academy of Martial Arts Kazakhstan. He states that admission to the Kazakhstan 
National~---~Taekwondo Team requires "a consistent track record of outstanding achievements 
in this sport" and that "[the Petitioner] was admitted to the team on the basis of his outstanding 
achievements in taekwondo as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in this sport." I I also stated that the Petitioner "has been a champion of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 
taekwondo," a statement that is not supported by the evidence relating to the Petitioner's awards, which 
5 
does not include any national championships. In addition, he states that the national team "only selects 
the best of the best and is highly selective" and names other past members of the team who have gone on 
to win medals in international events . 
.__ __ _.Is letter simply repeated the regulatory language of this criterion without providing details 
regarding how selection for the national team is actually made or what criteria must be met. Repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). 
Further, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letter, which is not sufficiently specify with 
respect to the national team membership requirements or selection processes. Although refers 
to the "Kazakhstan National I ITaekwondo Team by-laws" in his letter, the record does not 
contain corroborating evidence, such as a copy of these bylaws or the team's official rules or procedures 
governing membership. The Petitioner must show that he meets every element of a given criterion. Here, 
the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated the procedures or criteria used for his selection to this 
claimed national team. 
Based on the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the submitted evidence does not satisfy this criterion and we agree with 
that finding. Specifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the author of the material. 
The Petitioner initially submitted three published articles in support of this criterion. One article from 
2012, titled j t' is about thd lstudio inl I Kazakhstan, and discusses 
the achievements of the young students who train there under the Petitioner's instruction. Another 
article, titled ' is an interview 
with the Petitioner and two of his students who had recently won medals at the I I World 
Taekwondo Championships held inl I in 2013. The third article is an interview with the 
Petitioner about his work as a competitive athlete and taekwondo coach, but it does not include a date 
or identify the author. While all three articles are about the Petitioner and his work as a taekwondo 
athlete and/or instructor, the submitted translations do not identify the names of the publications in 
which the articles appeared and were not accompanied by evidence demonstrating that any of the 
articles appeared in a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that each article submitted to satisfy this criterion 
should include: the title, date and author of the published material; the circulation (online and/or in 
print) of the publication in which it appeared; comparative circulation data for major publications; and 
the intended audience of each publication. 
6 
In response, the Petitioner submitted three additional articles: ( 1) an online article titled 1 I c=J published by Kostana · News in 2016"· 2 an online article ublished b Kostanay News 
~2012,titled' n n 
online article published by Nasha Gazeta in 2013, titled".__ _____________ __. 
.__ ____________ __." The articles are about the Petitioner and identify the respective 
authors and dates of publication. However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence that these 
articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 3 
Within his response, the Petitioner submitted letters from the editors of the publications Kostanay 
News and Nasha Gazeta. The editor ofKostanay News describes it as a "major media regional socio­
political publication," published three times per week and distributed in Kazakhstan and certain 
regions of Russia, with 82,000 print copies and an online version read by 150,000 people. The editor 
of Nasha Gazeta describes the publication as a "major media newspaper, which mainly covers the 
problems of Kostanay city," and farther states that it is a "regional independent weekly publication" 
distributed in Kostanay city and the Kostanay region of Kazakhstan. She states that it has a weekly 
circulation of 12,000 to 14,000 copies. 
The information provided from the preceding editors is not sufficient to demonstrate that these 
publications qualify as major media. USCIS need not rely on self-serving assertions. 4 Even if we 
were to accept the editors' information, we note that Nasha Gazeta is a local or regional publication 
based on the statements made its editor. While Kostanay News appears to have a broader reach, there 
is no evidence showing the distribution of this publication relative to other media in Kazakhstan to 
demonstrate that the submitted articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
~rt of this criterion, the Petitioner initially submitted a reference letter attributed toD 
L__J the .__ _______ __.Taekwondo of the Republic ofc=]R_epublic," who confirmed 
that the Petitioner "actively participated in carrying out and in judging of the republican and 
international competitions in Taekwondo" between 2010 and 2017. He provided a similar reference 
letter from I I of the I I Regional Judo Federation, indicating that he had 
judged city and regional competitions in judo. The aforementioned letters lack specificity regarding 
the events at which the Petitioner judged and therefore, the letters alone are insufficient to establish 
when the Petitioner served as a judge of taekwondo or other martial arts competitions. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
4 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) affd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that 
the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). 
7 
He also provided a certificate indicating that he was granted the title of "Judge of category 'A"' in 
Kazakhstan byl I in 2012. While this certificate indicates that the Petitioner holds a judging 
credential or qualification, it is insufficient to establish that he participated as a judge of the work of 
others at any specific event or competition. 
Finally, he provided a certificate of thanks issued to him by th~ I Taekwondo Institute"[ f]or 
the help at the objective refereeing and help in the assistance in conducting the open championship of 
I I" inl ITaekwondo in 2016. In his RFE, the Director acknowledged this 
certificate but noted that the record did not contain sufficient information to establish that he "acted as 
a judge consistent with the plain language of this regulatory criterion, rather than as a referee, enforcing 
the rules of the match and ensuring a sportsmanlike competition." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted another letter from I J who signed this 
letter as I lthe Kazakhstan Taekwondo Federation." He states that the Petitioner, "having 
gained tremendous experience in the field of taekwondo" has "assumed a position of the Chief Judge, 
which he held for many years" and 'judges tournaments of all levels." I !describes the 
composition of the "Tae Kwon Do Judges Committee" as approved by "the relevant Federation or 
Organization conducting the competition" and the role of a "Chief Judge." However, he does not 
identify any specific competitions in which the Petitioner participated as a judge. Further, based on 
his description of the judging hierarchy at a taekwondo competition, a chief judge is not responsible 
for judging the work of individual athletes in competition. Rather, he states that those duties are 
assigned to lower-level judges who each make "an independent decision on the evaluation of the 
performance of the athletes and is obliged to argue their actions in the relevant points of the 
Competition Rules when analyzing controversial points." I I indicates that the chief judge 
performs duties such as checking the readiness of premises and equipment for competition, organizing 
the drawing of participants and approving the competition schedule, duties that doe not require 
participating in judging the work of others. 
Here, the Petitioner has relied solely on the evidence discussed above, and did not submit 
corroborating evidence, such as his event-specific judging credentials, or official records from one or 
more events in which he claims he served as a judge, to show that he actually participated as a judge 
for taekwondo or other martial arts competitions. We agree with the Director that the sole event­
specific document from the 2016~--------~Open Championship, indicating that the 
Petitioner helped with refereeing, is insufficient to establish his participation as a judge at the event. 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although work may be ·'original," this fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner contends that he meets this 
criterion "by virtue of winning major national and international competitions" and that his 
"accomplishments in his athletic field constitute a contribution of major significance to the sport of 
Taekwondo." He argues that the Director did not give appropriate weight to the submitted expert 
testimonials. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner asserted that his athletic achievements, and the achievements of his 
students "constitute a contribution of major significance to the field of martial arts" noting that it is a 
"unique and rare achievement" to win national and international competitions. He also stated that his 
activities have been recognized as a contribution of major significance by leading experts in the field 
and indicated that he was submitting three letters in support of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from~-------- who describes the Petitioner as "one of 
the hardest working athletes" he has worked with. He praises the Petitioner's "natural talent" and 
"tremendous desire to excel and describes him as "polite and humble" and as a "good sportsman and 
coach." 
The Petitioner also provided an "Appreciation Letter" he received from._l -----;:====:::;--------' I L who thanked him for the cooperation and support he offered to the I ~Kazakhstan 
Team at the~-------~World Championship held in Spain in 2013. The letter lists the 
event results for three Kazakh athletes who received medals in their respective age and weight 
categories. Finally, he submitted a letter froml I of the Orthodox Jewish Self Defense 
Program in New York, who confirms that the Petitioner was a volunteer coach in the program from 
2017 to 2018. I I praises the Petitioner's character and sportsmanship and states that he is "a 
good athlete." 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that these letters did not identify his original 
contributions in his field or describe the significant impact of those contributions. The Director 
advised the Petitioner that letters from experts should provide as much detail as possible regarding his 
contributions and be supported by other evidence. 
In response, the Petitioner once again emphasized his achievements, stating that he "has 
unquestionably developed his own uniquely effective style, which is based on outstanding physique 
combined with mastery of challenging fighting techniques." However, he did not indicate that he was 
submitting additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
The Petitioner's achievements in taekwondo competitions and tournaments are more relevant to the 
awards category of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), a separate and distinct criterion. Consistent 
with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three separate criteria, we will generally 
not consider here evidence relating to the awards criterion. Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish 
that his competitive taekwondo results were indicative of original athletic contributions of major 
significance in the overall field. 6 Likewise, while the Petitioner established that he successfully 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 
2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in 
the field as a whole). 
9 
coached young athletes who won awards and prizes, the record does not show how his instruction 
methods were original or how his coaching has been recognized as an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. He did not show, for example, that his instruction or coaching methods have 
been adopted by others or otherwise impacted anyone other than the individual athletes with whom he 
has worked. 
Although the record contains letters praising the Petitioner's talent, character and work ethic, and 
additional letters which praise the Petitioner's career and highlight his achievements, they do not, 
individually or collectively, identify how he has made an original contribution of major significance 
in the field. In addition, having a diverse or unique skill set is not a contribution in-and-of-itself. 
Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
abilities to impact the field at a significant level. 
The letters submitted primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in his sport without 
providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 7 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the Petitioner has competed in competitions and tournaments at the international level, trained 
extensively in taekwondo, and coached other athletes, he has not shown how these activities equate to 
"original" athletic contributions of major significance in the field. While the record indicates that the 
Petitioner is a highly skilled athlete who has achieved some notable success in his career thus far, and 
although he has earned favorable recognition from the authors of the submitted letters, the evidence 
submitted does not demonstrate that his impact on the sport is commensurate with an original athletic 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criteria related to awards, 
membership in associations, published materials, judging, and original contributions. Although he 
argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles 
for organizations or establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional 
criterion. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 9 Similarly, since the identified basis for denial is 
dispositive of the appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments 
regarding the Director's separate determinations that the Petitioner did not establish that he is coming 
to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" and that his entry would "substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States" under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. at 9. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach.) 
10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8285335 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a competitive wrestler, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at least 
three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
I&NDec . 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not meet at least three criteria. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner is a competitive athlete inl !wrestling who has 
competed at the junior and senior levels in regional, national, and international competitions since 
2008, Inc=]the Petitioner was awarded the title "Master of Sport Of Uzbekistan" from the State 
Committee of Physical Education and Sport. The Petitioner indicates that he studied at the Uzbekistan 
State Institute of Physical Education from I I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets five of the ten criteria at 8 
C.F.R.(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i) Nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii) Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii) Published materials; 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii) Leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments. 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy all claimed criteria and to 
establish his eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's 
awards be nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and it is his burden to establish 
every element of this criterion.1 The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence that 
he was the recipient of "numerous awards and high-ranking finishes" but determined that there was 
insufficient evidence to establish that his awards are nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in his field. 
While we agree that the Petitioner did not establish the significance of all of the submitted awards, 
particularly certain "international tournaments," the record establishes that he received silver and 
bronze medals at the Championship of Uzbekistan in thl years 
1 _______ ~ and that he was 
twice the national champion in his weight class at the level. The record reflects that the 
Championship of Uzbekistan is sanctioned by the national federation for wrestling and the Uzbekistan 
Ministry of Physical Culture and Sports, and therefore is recognized as the official national 
championship in the sport in the Petitioner's country. Accordingly, we find that this criterion has been 
met. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based upon his selection as a member of the Uzbekistan 
National Wrestling Team, and contends that "USCIS erred in not finding that Uzbekistan National 
Wrestling Team requires of its members outstanding achievements in the field of wrestling as judged 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field of wrestling and/or that the Team does 
not qualify as an organization as INA does not define an organization in this context." 
The Petitioner submitted two letters from~---------------===! of the Uzbekistan 
Wrestling Federation, confirming the Petitioner's membership on the team sine~ He states that 
admission to the national team requires "a consistent track record of outstanding achievements in this 
sport" and that "[the Petitioner] was admitted to the team on the basis of his outstanding achievements in I I wrestling as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in this sport." 
Specifically, he stated that the Petitioner, at the time of admission, "has been a champion of the Republic 
of Uzbekistan in wrestling and multiple times winner of the national and international wrestling 
tournaments." 
I I further indicates that the Petitioner's admission to membership was recommended by I I an Olympic bronze medalist i~andl l who has multiple 
World Wrestling Championship medals. In addition, f states that the national team "only 
selects the best of the best and is highly selective" and names other past members of the team who have 
gone on to win medals in international events. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
The Petitioner provided letters froml I and I ~ho state that inD they 
reviewed the Petitioner's "track record of achievements in the field of wrestling and recommended his 
admission" to the national team based upon his having been "a champion of the Republic of Uzbekistan 
in wrestling and multiple times winner of the national and international wrestling tournaments." They 
assert that based on their recommendations "[the Petitioner's] admission to the Uzbekistan National 
Wrestling Team clearly demonstrates membership in the organization that requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field of 
wrestling." 
In comparing the letters from I I and~------~ they contain large portions of 
identical or virtually identical language consistent with a common source. If testimonial material lacks 
specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the Petitioner to furnish corroborative items. 
Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In addition, these letters, as well as the two letters from I I simply repeated the regulatory language of this criterion without providing details 
regarding how selection for the national team is actually made or what criteria must be met. Repeating 
the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Cf F edin 
Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letters, which are not sufficiently specific 
with respect to the national team membership requirements or selection processes. As noted by the 
Director, the record does not contain corroborating evidence, such as official rules or procedures 
published by the national federation of the sport. 
The Petitioner must show that he meets every element of a given criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently demonstrated the procedures or criteria used for his selection to the national team. Therefore, 
he did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
To qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international 
distribution. 2 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted an article titled 1...,,--------,-,........,....,.....----,r:-:-'.'t published by 
German online sports portal Sport aus Mainz (www.sportausmainz.de) inj f 2017. The article 
is about the results of the! I World Cham12ionships held in Poland, and primarily 
focuses on the individual match results of Lithuanian athlete! I who won a bronze 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (instrncting that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
4 
medal at the event. The article mentions that a Kyrgyz wrestler who lost in the semi-final round and 
"entered the competition with victories over Uzbek [the Petitioner] (8:0) and a Finn ... " This article, 
which only mentions the Petitioner's early round defeat in passing, is not about the Petitioner and 
therefore does not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. Further, the article was not accompanied 
by evidence that Sport aus Mainz qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication or 
other major media. 
The Petitioner also submitted an online article titled .__ _______________ __. 
publisrd bt News.az (www.news.az) inl 12011. The article provides the results of the first day 
of the Cup event, noting that Azerbaijan's youngl I wrestlers won five gold, five 
silver and seven bronze medals and athletes from Kazakhstan and Georgia won two gold medals each. 
In addition, the article lists the medal results in each weight category and identifies the Petitioner as a 
bronze medalist in theO event. Although the Petitioner's name is mentioned, the article is about 
the overall results of the D Cup and highlights the performance of the Azerbaijani team; it is not 
about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to establish that the online publication in which the article appeared is a major trade 
publication or other major media. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted an article titled .__....,,....___,,,,_....,,.... _________ __.' which was 
published as part of l O !' osted to the website of the Embassy of the Republic 
of Uzbekistan to the United Kingdom in 2011. The article is about the performance of 16 and 
17-year-old Uzbek wrestlers at the Youth Wrestling Championship and mentions the 
Petitioner's bronze medal in the .___~weight class. The article does not identify the author of the 
material as required by the regulation and is not accompanied by evidence that an Embassy's 
"information digest" qualifies as major media. 
Later, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted an article titled 
published by Sports of Bukhara onl j2ol9. In addition, he sub~m_i_tt-ed~---~2-0_1_8-art_1 __ c~le 
titled 'I @_nd an LJ2019 article titled' I ]' both published in Uzbekistan m.__o-nt....,.h....,.ly-s-po_rt_s _m_a_g_a_z1,...._n_e_P___,h,....J-.s-ic--a--:!l 
Culture and Sports. 
The Director acknowledged that these articles are about the Petitioner and his act1v1t1es as a 
competitive wrestler; however, he noted that all three articles were published subsequent to the filing 
of this petition in July 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 17 5 (Comm'r 1998). 
That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981 ), further provides that USCIS 
cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. As 
the published materials submitted in response to the RFE cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility 
as of the date of filing, we need not evaluate whether they otherwise satisfy the plain language of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
5 
Nevertheless, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not provided sufficient 
evidence to establish that Sports of Bukhara or Physical Culture and Sports qualify as major trade 
media or other major media. The Petitioner provided letters from the editors of these publications 
attesting to their respective circulation and online readership. USCIS need not rely solely on self­
serving assertions. 3 Even if we were to accept the editors' information there is no evidence showing 
the distribution of these publications relative to other Uzbekistani media to demonstrate that the 
submitted articles from late 2018 and 2019 were published in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted evidence from "major sport-related newspapers 
in his country of origin and beyond" and contends that the Director provided "no valid basis for the 
rejection of credible, clear and convincing evidence." However, as noted, the Director clearly 
explained in both the RFE and the decision why the evidence was insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. For the reasons discussed, we agree with the Director's determination. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 4 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner contends that he meets this 
criterion "by virtue of winning major national and international competitions" and that his 
"accomplishments in his athletic field constitute a contribution of major significance to the sport of 
Wrestling." He argues that the Director did not give appropriate weight to the submitted expert 
testimonials. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner initially! proviled a letter from professional wrestler I I I I who, as an amateur competed at the an<lLJummer Olympics, as well as World 
and Asian Championships as a member of the Uzbekistan national team. I I affirms 
that the Petitioner became a member of the national team in~ and provides a "summary list" of 
the Petitioner's results in "major national and international'1 I wrestling tournaments 
between~andc::] He also states that he received the Petitioner received the Master of Sports 
of Uzbekistan title "for achieving outstanding accomplishments in the field of I I 
wrestling," noting that the title is granted only to those athletes who have attained an exceptional level 
of mastery in their particular sport, as evidenced by success in major national or international 
tournaments." 
The Petitioner's achievements in wrestling competitions and tournaments are more relevant to the 
awards category of evidence at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), a separate and distinct criterion that he has 
3 See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) affd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that 
the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although work may be "original." this fact 
alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
already satisfied. Consistent with the regulatory requirement that a petitioner meet at least three 
separate criteria, we will generally not consider here evidence relating to the awards criterion. 
Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish that his competitive wrestling results were indicative of 
original athletic contributions of major significance in the overall field. 5 Likewise, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how his "Master of Sport" title qualifies as an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. He did not show, for example, that it was awarded based on a determination 
that his contributions to the sport had made a significant impact on the field. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted three additional letters. One letter is attributed to 
I I head coach ofi !wrestling for USA Wrestling, the governing body of the 
sport in the United States. However, the letter reflects that ~----~did not personally sign 
statement as someone signed "forl I' on the signature line. This letter, and two additional 
letters (from USA Wrestling assistant national! I coach,I p, and I I 
University assistant wrestling coac~~---------~~' summarize the Petitioner's career 
and highlight his achievements, they did not establish how they reflect original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
The letter attributed tol l states that the Petitioner's "decided unique approach to wrestling, 
as well as his outstanding accomplishments in this sport definitely constitute an athletic contribution 
of major significance to this field," and later notes that his "athletic achievements represent a 
significant contribution to the field of I I wrestling due to his relentless work ethic and 
unique style." However, having a unique style is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of­
itself Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those 
skills and abilities to impact the field at a significant level. In the case here, the Petitioner did not 
establish how his physical abilities and "unique style" are viewed as an original contribution, as well 
as how they have significantly influenced the field. 
We note that large portions of the letters frortj I and~------~ are identical in 
content. Their letters address the Petitioner's "Master of Sport" title and state that it is awarded 
"exclusively to those athletes who have made a contribution of major significance to their sport as 
judged by nationally recognized experts in the field." However, this statement is not supported by 
evidence from the issuing organization documenting the criteria for awarding a Master of Sport title 
in I I wrestling in Uzbekistan. 6 Both these letters also state that the Petitioner's 
"accomplishments clearly demonstrate that he has made a contribution of major significance to the 
sport of wrestling." They also refer to his is receipt of "major internationally recognized awards" at 
World Championships, which the Petitioner has neither claimed nor documented. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 
2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in 
the field as a whole). 
6 The Petitioner submitted a printout from The Free Dictionary, that discusses the history of the "Master of Sport" title in 
the USSR. The Petitioner's Master of Sport title was bestowed on him by the State Committee of Physical Education and 
Sport of the Republic of Uzbekistan and is not accompanied by evidence from that body explaining the criteria or 
achievements required to earn the title. 
7 
The letters submitted primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in his sport without 
providing specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 7 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
While the Petitioner has competed in competitions and tournaments at the national and international 
level and participated in extensive! I wrestling training, he has not shown how these 
activities equate to "original" athletic contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In a statement submitted with his initial submission, the Petitioner asserts that he has played a leading 
and critical role in the Uzbekistan National Wrestling Team sinceO but he does not specify what that 
role was or indicate that he was submitting evidence in support of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In his letter dated July 20, 2018,I I stated that the Petitioner had bee1~(layilg a "leading 
and critical role in the Uzbekistan National Wrestling Team as the team leader" sine In response 
to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a new letter from I l dated May 3, 2019, indicating 
that the Petitioner served as the captain of the Uzbekistan National Wrestling Team frotti I 
We note that the claimed dates of the Petitioner's leadership position and the title of his claimed role both 
changed from the date of filing, and neither the Petitioner nor I I addressed these 
inconsistencies. Based on the conflicting statements provided byl ( we find that his letter 
alone is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner held the team I I role for his national team. We 
also observe that neither! I and I I who wrote their letters as 
representatives of the Uzbekistan National Team and Wrestling Association of Uzbekistan, indicate that 
the Petitioner served as a team leader or captain on their team. 
In his second letter,I I notes that the "function of the team captain position is leadership 
and management, which is reflected in the Uzbekistan National Wrestling team by-laws." He noted that 
the captain is elected annually by team members and "can only be occupied by a true leader of the sports 
team, i.e. an authoritative and experienced athlete, one of the strongest on the team." I I 
also provided a description of the functions performed by a team captain during competition "in 
accordance with the Rules of competition adopted by the Wrestling Association of Republic of 
Uzbekistan." However, the record does not contain the bylaws or rules ofcompetition, nor does it contain 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. at 9. 
8 
any independent documentation confirming the Petitioner's election as team captain for five consecutive 
years. 
In light ofl Is statement that the team captain is "an authoritative and elperirced athlete," 
we note that the Petitioner himself was an 18-year-old college student illLJ As of at the end of 
his claimfid tenure as team captain, he competed for the team in the I I I category at the world championships, where he finished 18th. The record reflects that, during 
the Petitioner's claimed tenure as captain) 11 I andl I and 
other Uzbek wrestlers competed and won medals for the Uzbekistan National Team at major international 
events including the~and0Summer Olympics, World Championships and Asian Championships 
at the senior level. We while do not discount the possibility that the Petitioner had a leadership role on 
the team starting inDas initially claimed, additional objective erdence would be needed to support 
his later claim that he held the team captain role froml The Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8325115 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of computer science and information systems, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet 
at least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an assistant professor of computer science and information systems at.__,---------,, D University! ~ She earned her master's degree in computer engineering at.__-.--------'I 
University in 2010 and her doctor of philosophy in computer engineering at University of r----i n 2015. Previously, she worked as a research assistant and adjunct faculty at University o 
and as fixed-term faculty atl !university from 2015 to 2016. .__ __ ____. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet four of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations which require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria pertaining to judging and scholarly articles. 
The record supports this determination. Specifically, the Petitioner has provided evidence confirming 
that she reviewed manuscripts submitted by her peers for publication to the International Journal of 
Distributed Sensor Networks and the 2017 International Conference on Computing, Networking and 
Communications (ICNC). In addition, evidence confirms that she has authored scholarly articles that 
were published in conference proceedings including the International Conference on Computer 
Communications and Networks (ICCCN), IEEE Co11ference on Local Computer Networks (LCN), and 
Network Operations and Management Symposium (NOMS). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the two other claimed criteria, which we will 
discuss below. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not show 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that she satisfies this criterion based on her membership in the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
The Petitioner provided a copy of her IEEE membership card and a printout of a page from IEEE' s 
website ("How do I become an IEEE Member?") identifying two membership types -"professional" 
and "student/graduate student." According to this document, "professional membership" is "[f]or 
individuals who are contributing or working in a technology or engineering field." The Petitioner 
argued that this requirement demonstrates that applicants for membership are judged before being 
granted admission. The Director determined that the submitted information did not discuss the IEEE's 
membership requirements or the requirements for those who judge applications and therefore 
determined that the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner met this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a second printout from IEEE's website and asserts that it "clearly 
demonstrates that to become a member of IEEE you need to have continued education, years of 
experience, demonstrated contributions to the field, and have been published." The attached printout, 
which is titled "Qualifications for IEEE Membership," does not support this statement. It states that 
applicants must have "satisfied IEEE-specified educational requirements" and/or "have demonstrated 
professional competence in IEEE-designated fields of interest" in order to be admitted as members. 
Specifically, individuals may qualify by: (1) receiving a three-to five-year university level or higher 
degree in an IEEE-designated field; (2) receiving any three-to five-year university level or higher 
degree and at least three years of professional work experienced in an IEEE-designated field; or (3) 
by having six years of professional work experience in which they demonstrated competence in an 
IEEE-designated field. Based on this evidence, standard membership in the IEEE is based on an 
individual attaining a certain level of education and/or years of experience in designated fields and is 
not based on outstanding achievements in the field. 2 
The additional IEEE membership requirements mentioned in the appellate brief: such as those related 
to demonstrated contributions, appear to be those that apply to IEEE's "senior member grade." As the 
Petitioner has not established that she is a senior member of the IEEE, we will not evaluate whether 
that membership grade would qualify under this criterion. The Petitioner has not established that she 
satisfies this criterion based on her membership in the IEEE. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate, which requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 Id. at 7. 
3 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003) . 
.__ _______________ __. .. " The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from 
mentors, colleagues, and others in support of her claim that she has made original contributions of major 
significance based on her research. The Director determined that the submitted letters supported the 
Petitioner's claims regarding her original research but did not demonstrate that her contributions had 
already substantially impacted the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects and argues that the Director did not give sufficient weight to a detailed 
expert letter froml I who explained how her research has "already begun to contribute to the 
field" and "furthered the science involving networks and big data transfers." We agree that the opinions 
of experts in the field are relevant to this criterion and we have considered them below. However, the 
letters submitted, including! Is, do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the 
record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate that the Petitioner has made 
specific original contributions that are recognized in the field as majorly significant. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided two letters froml I an associate orofessor at the I I Institute of Technology who was her Ph.D. advisor at the University of[ I We 
have reviewed and considered both letters but will focus on the more detailed statement submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence. I !devotes a substantial portion of his letter to 
explaining the area in which the Petitioner conducts her research. Specifically, he provides 
background information regarding "Big Data" and the associated demand for bandwidth, risks and 
threats facing enterprise networks, the appeal of Bandwidth on Demand (BoD) as a cost-effective 
solution for temporary large bandwidth needs, and the possibilities offered by I a I ~ which he describes as "still in the experimental phase." He explains that 
has received considerable attention from the networking industry, and, if successful, could 
revolutionize networking and make networks "more secure, affordable and flexible." I lnoted 
that companies including Google and Microsoft "are all working on designing models to makec=J 
a reality." 
Turning to the Petitioner's work,I I explains that her research "focuses on designing._! ___ _, I I techniques to support faster transfer of big-data with the main objective of efficient 
utilization of network resources" and "utilizes c::=]nfrastructure that enables network administrators 
to make better routing decisions which is a critical requirement for efficient working of BoD 
applications." I I explains that the Petitioner has "proposed and published various efficient 
4 
.__ ______ __, considering many real-time constraints such as delay, deadline, bandwidth, etc." 
and has published her work at "top-tier networking conferences." While he describes the Petitioner's 
research and the issues addressed through that research in technical detail, and indicates that the work 
is considered original and has generated some interest from others in the field as evidenced by 
invitations to present it at conferences, we agree with the Director's determination that his letter does 
not demonstrate how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the field. Rather,I lrefers in 
general terms to the promise and potential of the research and how it might be of future benefit. 
For example, he states that "Big-data transfer and multimedia applications such as Netflix can hugely 
benefit from [ the Petitioner's] proposed solrtions that ensme j:pmved I I' indicates that 
her work "has a great potential to achieve lin real-time networks" and 
maintains that "it will also play a major role in understanding the challenges involved in implementing c=J" He further states that"[ w ]ith companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft proposing 
models to introducec=J [ the Petitioner' sl worf will heT to explre various challenges involved which 
is very much critical at this initial phase of ' While s letter explains that the Petitioner is a 
productive researcher in an active field of research, and has made contributions to that field's growing 
body of knowledge, the record does not objectively establish that the Petitioner's efforts to date have been 
recognized for their major significance, or establish how other researchers, or the major companies 
referenced above, have already benefited from her contributions. 
I lalso states that the Petitioner "has made significant contributions in designing~-----~ I l which are extremely important to Department of Energy, National science 
laboratories, organizations targeted by network-based attacks, and United States as a whole." He does 
not further elaborate or state whether her algorithms are already by used by the Department of Energy, 
national science laboratories, or other organizations. Without additional detail, we cannot conclude that 
these algorithms have been widely adopted by or have remarkably impacted the field, or whether I I 
believes that they will ultimately benefit the named entities and "the United States as a whole" in the 
future. 
Although the Petitioner and Director both focus onl I's letter, we have reviewed and considered the 
other submitted expert opinion letters and find them similarly lacking in detail regarding the current 
impact or influence of the Petitioner's research in her field. 3 I I ofl O I 
University describes the Petitioner's primary research focus and states that she "has made outstanding 
original contributions to the field of computer science" without further elaborating on what those 
contributions are or how they have been reco nized as majorly significant in the field. I I I I chief technical officer a and rofessor at University, discusses 
the Petitioner's work on using SDN for implementing.__ ______ __,,~ noting that "her innovative 
research using a technique, has a great potential in real networks to route 
users m " ~--------~ 
3 In addition to the letters discussed, the Petitioner provided a letter from I ~ of c=J in support of this 
criterion.I I indicates that he reviewed the evidentiary criteria for this classification, and, in his opinion, the 
Petitioner meets the criteria related to awards, memberships in professional associations, judging, and authorship of 
scholarly aiiicles. However, he does not address the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), or 
otherwise comment on the significance of her research contiibutions and their impact in the field. 
5 
Finally, I I, a professor at the University oti I states that the Petitioner's research 
"has a potential in handling massive network-based attacks ... caused by lack of bandwidth," that it "has 
a significant role in designing and implementing the next generation networks that the entire networking 
industry is trying to standardize," and "will play a major role in Internet, especially for users who have 
huge files to transfer or want to watch high-quality videos and pay only for the period of usage." Like the 
other expert letters,! ts focuses on the potential significance of the Petitioner's original research, 
which is not sufficient to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Based on our review of the letters, we agree with the Director that, while they are not without weight, 
they are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets every element of this criterion. The letters 
considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's research 
studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics do 
not add value are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.4 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att)· Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not 
explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others 
in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact in the field 
commensurate with a contribution of major significance. Letters of this kind can help to explain the 
nature of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with corroborating documentary evidence 
to establish the major significance of those contributions. 
The Petitioner also submits her publication and citation record from Google Scholar and provides 
evidence that she has been invited to present her papers at international conferences. But this evidence 
not show that the impact of her work in the computer science and networking field rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that 
the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work; however, the fact that the Beneficiary has published 
articles that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Journal and conference publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
absent evidence that they were of "major significance." We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner 
may present evidence that his articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite 
[her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of [her] contributions to 
the field of endeavor."5 
Here, the Petitioner states that her record of five publications and 23 citations provides "direct evidence 
that her original scientific/scholarly work is a contribution in her field," and there is "no doubt that her 
research has furthered the science involving networks and big data transfers." The Petitioner does not 
provide comparative evidence to show that any of her published articles is highly cited by others in the 
field, which may be one indicator of its impact. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that her work has 
been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise received notice from others in the field at a 
level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the field." While it is likely that the 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 8. 
6 
Petitioner's published research has incrementally advanced the science in her field, which is 
reasonably expected of research deemed worthy of publication, her publication record does not 
establish how she has generated widespread commentary or acceptance and application of her 
findings, nor does the evidence establish that her published studies have advanced the field in a 
significant way. While the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion 
letters, that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the 
Petitioner's research findings, individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced 
her field. 
Finally, the Director's decision reflects that he considered the evidence of the Petitioner's research 
awards and grants, travel awards, teaching awards, and other documentation that she initially 
submitted as "comparable evidence" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) to determine whether such evidence 
is relevant to this criterion. 6 The Director determined that this evidence did not demonstrate that she 
was recognized by the field for her original contributions of major significance and the Petitioner does 
not contest this conclusion on appeal. We agree with the Director's conclusion. While such evidence 
indicates that she has received positive recognition in her field, as both a teacher and researcher, it 
does not support a finding that she meets this criterion. Regardless, receiving fonding to conduct 
research, without more, is not indicative of a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, 
the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or other similar fonding or awards reflects her past 
works' major significance, or that her research conducted with the fonding resulted in contributions 
of major significance in the field. She has not made such a showing. 
Accordingly, based on the evidence in the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
6 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if he or she is able to 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. The 
Petitioner here submitted "comparable evidence" but did not claim that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to her occupation. As noted, she claims that she meets four of those criteria. 
7 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7977790 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant project scientist engaged in biomolecular and biomaterials research, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as an assistant project scientist at the University of~I -----~ I I in the Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics. Her current 
research work focuses on the use ofl !technology to advance treatments for AIDS through 
'------~----' therapy. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed that she meets three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets all three claimed criteria. The Petitioner's involvement in 
peer review of manuscripts for professional journals constitutes participation as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or allied field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored 
scholarly articles published in professional publications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner established that she had made original scientific 
contributions of major significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner asserts 
2 
that she has made original contributions in the fields o±i I for cancer, I I and D therapy for AIDS, as well as in the field of advanced I I materials for catalysts, high 
performance I I andl I storage, which was the focus of her earliest published research. 
To explain the nature and significance of the Petitioner's work in the field of biomaterials and I ~, I I a professor at the University! I states: 
[The Petitioner] has developed an extremely powerful drug-delivery technology which 
enables effective delivery of therapeutic agents for a broad range of applications, such as I I cancer and HIV therapy, and the treatment of central nervous system 
diseases. From the aspect of material design, [the Petitionerl creatively developed an[] 
I I technique, which allows the growth of al 1 • I shell around a _ I molecule i O I [The Petitioner's] 
~s-tr-a-te_g_y_a-ffi-o-rd~s the I I with precisely controlled composition and 
surface chemistry, enabling their effectively [sic] delivery to tissues and organs with 
targetability and controlled-release capability .... [T]he advantages of I I drugs can 
only be achieved through an effective delivery system. The platform technology [she] 
developed provides a universal and effective approach for drug development. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she is listed as a co-inventor on several I I patents for 
.__ ___ ~I technology, and the evidence indicates that at least one atent has been licensed to a 
major pharmaceutical company for use in pre-clinical trials. L--:-------:---,-,---.-------..----:-' a I I 
professor, states that the Petitioner's 1 I delivery method for.__ _____ ~therapy has 
been applied to improve the delivery of over 20 clinical use medications, some of them are already 
tested in preclinical models with collaborations" although we find inadequate corroboration of this 
statement in the supporting documentation. 
We also note that extensive citation of published work can be a hallmark of major significance in the 
field. 1 At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted her Google Scholar citation history showing that 
she had published 18 articles, all of which had been cited at least once by other researchers. The 
Petitioner's eight articles in her prior research field of.__ ______ ____, materials (published 
between 2008 and 2011) accounted for most of her citations ( approximately 86%) with one article in 
that field ofresearch accounting for 43% of her total with over 500 citations. 
Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner had established the major significance of her 
scientific contributions, as with all the regulatory criteria, satisfaction of this criterion does not 
establish eligibility or create a presumption of sustained acclaim. Because the Petitioner met three of 
the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits determination. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 8 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received her bachelor of science in chemical engineering at I I Institute of Tec~nolo:y ] China) in 2006, and her master of science and doctor of philosophy in 
chemical rginering a University (China) in 2008 and 20111 respecltively. She was a visiting 
student at from 2009 to 2010, and later conducted research at as a postdoctoral scholar 
from 2012 until 2016. She accepted her current position as an assistant project scientist withl l's 
Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics in 2016. As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner judged the work of others within her field, authored scholarly articles, and made original 
scientific contributions through her research. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner has had a productive and successful 
career but has not shown that she has risen to the very top of the field and earned sustained national 
or international acclaim. The Director noted that some of the Petitioner's activities satisfy the 
individual regulatory criteria but, when viewed in the context of the record in its totality, do not 
establish eligibility. 
The Director found that the Petitioner's participation in the peer review of five manuscripts for Journal 
of Translational Medicine, Journal of Materials Chemistry B, and Biomaterials Science amounts to 
judging the work of others. However, the Director concluded that that the Petitioner did not establish 
how her peer review activity reflected her sustained acclaim or resulted in such acclaim, as the record 
did not establish that invitations to participate in the peer review process are reserved for the small 
percentage at the very top of the field. On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's analysis and 
asserts that the Director applied a novel evidentiary requirement by suggesting that the Petitioner must 
establish that her judging activities reflect her acclaimed status. The Petitioner also argues that the 
Director applied an arbitrary standard by determining that the quantity of reviews she conducted did 
not "set her apart from others" in the field. 
However, we agree with the Director that an evaluation of the significance of the Petitioner's 
experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 3 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner peer reviewed five manuscripts for three journals in 2017. 4 She submitted 
information from the publishers of the three journals for which she served as a reviewer; however, she 
did not submit evidence of the journals' rankings in support of her claim that she had reviewed 
manuscripts for "top journals" as of the date of filing. Further, the Petitioner did not establish the 
various journals' requirements for peer reviewers, and therefore we cannot evaluate her judging 
activities in terms of those requirements. For example, participating in manuscript review for journals 
that select peer reviewers based on subject matter expertise does not provide strong support for the 
petition, because expertise is a lower threshold than acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitiorr nrovides evidence that she has been invited to serve as a guest editor for a 
future special issue of I, along with evidence that this journal ranks highly in the 
"materials science (miscellaneous)" field. The invitation letter indicates that she would be responsible 
for inviting outstanding scholars in the field to submit research and review papers, which would be 
subject to peer review. The Petitioner, based on peer-review opinions received, would be expected 
"to make your professional judgment with our professional editors for these manuscripts." The 
Petitioner emphasizes that the invitation letter specifically states that "[a] reviewer must be a 
recognized leading expert with renowned international reputation" and "must has [sic] sustained 
national or international acclaim." However, the evidence does not reflect that the Petitioner was 
invited to participate as a peer reviewer. Further, while we acknowledge that her invitation to serve 
as a guest editor is notable and that the journal recognized her expertise in the subject matter and recent 
publications related to the special issue's topic, the invitation to serve as a guest editor occurred 
subsequent to the denial of the petition and recognizes research that she published while the petition 
was pending. The Petitioner's eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
In fact, the record reflects that all of the Petitioner's peer review activity occurred either in 201 7, the 
year prior to filing the petition, or in 2019, subsequent to filing. The Petitioner did not establish that 
these recent instances contribute to a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Finally, participation in the peer review process, even for reputable journals, does not automatically 
support a finding that an individual researcher has sustained national or international acclaim at the 
very top of their field. Similarly, the evidence in the record does not show that she has received 
acclaim or recognition for her peer review efforts. Without evidence differentiating her from those in 
her field, such as documentation showing that she has served in editorial positions for distinguished 
journals or publications, chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, or has a consistent 
history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, the Petitioner has not 
established that her peer review experience places her among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 See also, USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 13 (stating that "the alien's participation [as a judge] 
should be evaluated to determine whether they were indicative of the alien being one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim.") 
4 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence that she reviewed two additional manuscripts in 2019 ( for Biomaterials 
Science and Journal of Materials Chemishy B). 
5 
Likewise, the publication of a petitioner's scientific research does not automatically place one at the 
top of the field. Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored approximately 20 
papers in professional journals between 2008 and 2018. 5 As authoring scholarly articles is often 
inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence 
of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that her work has had on 
the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations 
for an article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized 
and that other researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
As noted above, the research conducted by the Petitioner during a portion of her graduate studies and 
published between 2008 and 2011, focused on.__ ______ __,materials, which is not the field of 
research in which she is currently engaged or the field in which she intends to continue her research 
in the United States. At the time of filing, approximately 86% of her 1166 total citations were citations 
to her articles published in this field, and on appeal, that percentage remains at over 81 % of her total 
citations. The Petitioner's most cited article in her previous field ofresearch, published in 2011, has 
610 citations, while her most cited article in the biomaterials field, published later in 2011, has 67 
citations as of the date of the appeal. Both articles were published in Advanced Materials, but the 
fields of research are distinct. In fact, several of the expert opinion letters comment on the Petitioner's 
marked transition from I co I materials to performing research in the field of 
biomaterials and drug delivery. 
The Petitioner has maintained that based on citation statistics obtained from Clarivate Analytics her 
total number of citations since 2008 places her in the top 0 .1 % in the field of materials science and in 
the field of molecular biology and genetics. The citation figures she used as a comparison was an "all 
years" citation rate derived from averaging the top .1 % citation threshold for all publications in the 
specific field in a given year over an 11-year period. However, none of the Petitioner's individual 
publications reached this threshold. For example, her most cited article in her current research field 
reached the top 20% in molecular biology and top 10% in materials science when compared to other 
articles published in the same year. At the time of filing, the Petitioner had accumulated 160 total 
citations for her research in the molecular biology field, published between 2011 and 2018. 
Some of the submitted expert opinion letters also discuss the Petitioner's citation history. For example, I I noted that five of the Petitioner's articles in the molecular biology field had been 
cited 1. 6 to 2. 7 times "higher than the average" according to Essential Science Indicators. For example, 
she indicated that the Petitioner's 2011 Advanced Materials article in this field was cited 1.6 times 
higher than the average paper published in 2011 but did not indicate how that above-average citation 
rate indicates that she has been recognized as being at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner also claimed that, between 2015 and 2018, she published more papers and received 
more citations than "some of the named leading scientists in [her] specific research field -molecular 
5 The record reflects that the Petitioner subsequently authored four articles that were published or accepted for publication 
in Advanced Materials and Nature Biomedical Engineering in 2019. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
6 
biology & genetics, proving that [she] is one of the very few scientists who have risen to the very top 
of her field." The evidence objectively shows that she had a higher publication rate and more citations 
compared to the scientists that she selected for comparison. However, she did not explain how this 
recent short window of activity places her among these "leading scientists." 
Biographical information relating to these individuals indicates that their overall accomplishments and 
reputations substantially exceed those of the Petitioner. The Petitioner does not place himself among 
their ranks simply by showing that her output was, by some measures, comparable to theirs from 2015 
to 2018. For example, one of these scientists is a Harvard professor who is credited with making 
several fundamental discoveries regarding DNA replication and genetic recombination in the 1950s 
and 1960s. The referenced professor is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and has served 
on its council, holds many other distinguished memberships and honorary degrees, and has received a 
number of prestigious nationally and internationally recognized prizes. While we acknowledge that 
the Petitioner could establish eligibility without demonstrating that she has received this very high 
degree of acclaim and recognition, the narrow focus on her very recent publication record does not 
provide an appropriate basis for comparison to the "leading scientists" she identified. 
The Petitioner's citation evidence indicates that she has been quite productive during her career thus 
far, in two different fields, and that her peers have noticed her work. But she has not established that 
the rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in her field commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. The statute demands 
"extensive documentation" of recognition. We have taken her citation record into consideration, but 
she cannot rely primarily on that record to mathematically place herself at the top of the field without 
other persuasive evidence of sustained acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also emphasizes that she has published her research in Advanced Materials, 
which is ranked third out of 609 journals in the field "materials science (miscellaneous)." A given 
publication's high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It 
does not, however, demonstrate the influence of any specific author within the field or how an author's 
research has had an impact within the field. As of the date of filing, the Petitioner demonstrated that 
she had published two articles in Advanced Materials in 2011, but she has not provided the rankings 
for other journals that published her work. On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence that she 
published three additional articles in Advanced Materials in 2019, including one selected as the cover 
article, and another chosen for the publication's inside back cover. However, she did not establish 
that publishing two, or even five, articles in one highly ranked journal is indicative of being among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field or a career of acclaimed work. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
As it relates to her research, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not acknowledge that her 
publications have been cited in a significant number of review articles and highlights some of these 
articles on ap:eal. One of the review articles, 1 , , I I I (Journal of Controlled Release), cites to the Petitioner's 2011 Advanced Materials 
article o~ I and states the following: 
7 
The Petitioner maintains that this citation, and others in the record, show that her work was singled 
out for special attention, but she has not established how mentions of this kind translate into sustained 
national or international acclaim. The review article discusses the other 126 source articles in similar 
terms; there is no special emphasis on the Petitioner's work relative to the hundreds of researchers 
who contributed to the other cited articles. The stated purpose of the article is to survey 
.__ ___ ___.I." This article and others like it acknowledge the Petitioner's contributions to the 
advancement of what appears to be an active field ofresearch but are not indications that she has been 
recognized by the field as one of the small percentage ofresearchers at the very top. 
The record also contains ten recommendation letters that summarize the Petitioner's research and 
original contributions. The Director acknowledged the submitted letters but found that "the submission 
of solicited letters supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility." The Director cited 
case law indicating that USCIS may, in its discretion, consider advisory opinions as expert testimony, 
but that USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding eligibility. 
MatterofCaronlnt'l, 19I&NDec. 791,795 (Comm'r.1988). 
The Director's decision reflects that he granted some weight to the letters and likely relied on them, in 
part, in determining that the Petitioner had met the original contributions criterion. Letters of this kind 
can help to explain the nature and impact of the Petitioner's contributions but should be supported with 
corroborating documentary evidence to establish that the Petitioner is recognized as being at the top of 
the field. The record does not show that the writers' views represent the consensus within that field. 
Instead, the authors make general assertions repeating the statute and regulations. 6 For instance, D I lstates that her conclusion is that the Petitioner "is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of her field of endeavor" and that she "has sustained national or international 
acclaim." .__ ______ ____, Fellow ofl !National Laboratories states that the Petitioner "is 
a research scientist of extraordinary ability recognized al being 
1at the very top of her field." D I I a professor in the Petitioner's department at states that it is his "expert opinion 
that [ the Petitioner] is an extraordinary research scientist with outstanding research ability in 
bioanalytical research" and that her citations and peer review invitations "clearly demonstrate that she 
has been recognized by her peers for being one of the small percentage at the very top of her field." I lstates that "the evidence shows that [the Petitioner] has sustained national or 
international acclaim and her achievement have been recognized in the field" and that she "is a 
research scientist of extraordinary ability at the very top of her field (top 1 %)." 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not 
provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating 
6 Although we only address the letters highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 
evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as 
being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the experts who provided their opinions also detailed the facts that led 
them to conclude that she is at the top of the field. We acknowledge that the submitted letters 
referenced her publications, citation record, contributions and peer review activities. However, as 
discussed above, we have reviewed this evidence and do not find, for example, that the Petitioner's 
one year of experience as a peer reviewer supports a finding that she has sustained acclaim and is at 
the very top of her field. 
The Petitioner has shown that she is a capable and productive researcher, whose work is valued by 
other researchers in her field and has contributed to advances in drug delivery research. Nevertheless, 
her most highly cited work, and most of her overall citations, are in a field in which she no longer 
conducts research. The objective evidence in the record indicates that the Petitioner's most recent 
work in her current field has attracted increasing attention, as documented by her three recent 
Advanced Materials articles, her invitation to guest edit an issue of that publication, recent 
opportunities to act as a peer reviewer in the biomaterials field, and a recent conference invitation. 
However, most of this evidence post-dates the filing of the petition. 
The record does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a 
highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective 
fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing 
at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of"extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
While the record shows that the Petitioner's accomplishments have been well received, the totality of the 
evidence does not indicate she has sustained national or international acclaim and she is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 8195912 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer and songwriter , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirement of meeting at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). In addition, he found that the Petitioner had not 
established that be seeks to enter the United States to continue working as a singer and songwriter. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter to the Director for the entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which bas been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted, the Petitioner is a singer and songwriter. Because he has not indicated or established that 
he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to meet the requirements of four criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
In his decision, the Director analyzed the evidence submitted under only three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria, excluding analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's asserted 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts his claim to 
having received two lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards under the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), and refers to evidence he submitted with the petition, as well as in response 
to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). We note that while the Petitioner claimed he met this 
criterion in letters included with both submissions, the Director does not appear to have evaluated the 
evidence in making his decision. Accordingly, we remand this matter to the Director so that he may 
do so in his new decision. 
2 
In discussing the criteria relating to published material about the Petitioner, and his participation as a 
judge of the work of others in his field, the Director focused, in part, on the translations of material 
from Chinese to English, concluding that the accompanying translator certifications did not meet the 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). That regulation requires that all foreign language documents 
be accompanied by a foll English language translation, as well as the translator's certification of their 
competence and that the translation is complete and accurate. Specifically, the Director indicated that 
the certifications do not state that the translations are "complete" as required. On review, we note that 
the certifications state that the translations are "completed, true and accurate," and otherwise meet the 
regulatory requirements. In addition, there is no indication that the English translations do not include 
the complete text of the original documents in Chinese. We therefore find that the translation 
certifications comply with the regulatory requirements, and remand for the Director to consider the 
translated documents in his evaluation of the corresponding criteria. In addition, the Director should 
evaluate new evidence the Petitioner submitted on appeal as it relates to these two criteria. 
Further, regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director erred in overlooking his thirteen albums as original contributions, and points to the evidence 
of his live and televised performances as well as his social media status to show the major significance 
of his music. As the Director referred only to the reference letters in his analysis under this criterion, 
and did not consider the other evidence the Petitioner referred to in his initial filing and RFE response, 
he should do so when re-examining the evidence on remand. 
If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, his decision 
should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
Finally, the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work as a singer 
and songwriter in the United States, in part because the letter from a prospective employer which was 
submitted with the Petitioner's RFE response did not include contact information for the signer. On 
remand, the Director should review the material referenced in the Petitioner's brief and determine 
whether the evidence otherwise establishes that he seeks to continue working in his field in the United 
States. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of 
the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8099829 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orthodontist, researcher and educator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, it did not establish that she has 
the requisite sustained national or international acclaim in her field and is among the small percentage 
at the very top of her field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner completed her initial training in orthodontics in India, and continued her training in the 
United States at the I !University, becoming certified by the Ameri~ao Board of Orthodontics 
in 2014. At the time of filing she was employed as an assistant professor at !university. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met the requisite three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), those relating to her participation as a judge of the 
work of others, original contributions of major significance to the field, and authorship of scholarly 
articles published in professional journals. Upon review, we agree that the record supports the 
Petitioner's qualification under two of those criteria. Specifically, she has submitted evidence that she 
has co-authored eight papers or book chapters which have been published in professional medical 
journals or books, and that she has served as a peer reviewer on more than twenty occasions for several 
scientific journals. However, we do not agree with the Director's determination regarding her original 
contributions of major significance in her field under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner initially stresses that two articles she published in scientific journals rank 
among the top 10% most cited articles published in the area of clinical medicine in their respective 
years, based upon statistics appearing in a report from Clarivate Analytics 1. We note, however, that 
the area of clinical medicine is significantly broader than the Petitioner's field of orthodontics, 
including those who conduct clinical research in many other medical specialties. As the record 
includes evidence indicating that citation figures such as these are field-specific, the fact that two of 
the Petitioner's papers were cited by others in their own published work at a higher rate when 
compared to all researchers in the area of clinical medicine does not necessarily establish that this 
research has been of major significance in the field. 
1 All citation figures and relating statistics reflect data available at the time of filing. 
2 
To support her assertion of the value of these statistics, the Petitioner submitted a paper published in 
the journal Scientometrics which suggests that the authorship of papers shown to be in the top 10% in 
terms of citations are one of three factors that should be given "the highest weight when comparing 
the scientific performance of single researchers." However, this evidence does not establish that 
metrics that may be suitable for comparing applicants for academic research positions and grants are 
useful as indicators that a researcher has made contributions of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner refers to the total number of citations to her published work as compared to 
other researchers in her field, and points to data from Microsoft Academic to support her assertion. 
We first note that the number of total citations is one measure which may be appropriate in evaluating 
sustained acclaim or standing in the field under a final merits determination, as the Petitioner does on 
appeal, but it does not serve as an accurate gauge of the significance of a specific contribution the 
Petitioner has made to the field. In addition, we note that this data, which indicates that in the period 
from 2010 to 2019, the Petitioner ranked in the top 2% in terms of the total number of citations to her 
work compared to others in the fields of orthodontics, dentistry and dental surgery, excludes from 
consideration research which was published prior to 2010, and thus does not account for the research 
of those who have been working in the field of orthodontics prior to 2010 and who remain active. 
More importantly, the Petitioner has not established that the research in the two papers noted above, 
or the other papers she has co-authored, has had a significant impact on the work of others in her field. 
The most recently published and highly cited paper of the two referenced above appeared in the 
American Journal of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics (AJODO) in 2014, and reported the 
results of a survey conducted by the Petitioner and her colleagues regarding patients' and 
orthodontists' perceptions of the value of a reduction in the treatment time for orthodontic procedures. 
Aside from the citation figures and statistics, the Petitioner also submitted evidence in the form of 
reference letters and citing articles to establish the impact of this research on the field of orthodontics. 2 
One such letter was written byl lof the University I l who indicates 
that the Petitioner's findings regarding patients' willingness to accept and pay for newer orthodontic 
procedures "is of tremendous value to third party companies who rely on this type of data when 
developing and marketing new clinical procedures." He adds that "unsurprisingly, [the Petitioner] 
determined that all groups displayed greater interest in non-invasive procedures as opposed to invasive 
procedures," and that the "frequent citation of [ the Petitioner's] survey research is to be expected given 
the general interest by patients, providers and referring dentists in reducing orthodontic treatment 
time." 
Another reference letter which focuses on this specific work came from~------~of the 
University of I l He indicates that he conducted a study of an orthodontic device 
because he had found a discrepancy regarding its performance in reports, and because the Petitioner's 
study showing patients' desire for accelerated treatments drove his concern about claims made 
regarding the device. The Petitioner also included a copy ofl ~s paper which cited her 
research results, in which he and his co-authors indicate that her finding that patients desire accelerated 
treatments were "not surprising." 
2 All of the reference letters in the record have been thoroughly reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in 
this decision. 
3 
A third letter discussing the impact of the Petitioner's research in patients' and orthodontists' treatment 
expectations was written by [ . I Professor of Orthodontics at I I I I He states that awareness of patient and practitioner views on treatment options "is paramount 
to providing informed patient care, so any study that can clarify these preferences is of immense value 
to the field." He then writes that he has used the Petitioner's research "as a platform to further my 
own clinical studies," and refers to a paper he published in AJODO four years after the Petitioner's 
paper was published which evaluated the efficacy of vibrational force treatments to accelerate space 
closure. A partial copy of this paper was submitted in the record which shows that after citing the 
Petitioner's paper in the introduction for its finding that patients prefer non-invasive treatments, 
.__ ______ __. and his colleagues focused on examining whether a particular dental appliance 
provided treatment benefits. Although these letters and papers indicate that the Petitioner's survey 
paper disseminated useful data which was utilized by several other researchers to support their research 
goals, they do not establish that it had an impact of major significance by advancing the field of 
orthodontics. 
As an additional contribution of major significance, the Petitioner repeats on appeal her assertion that 
clinical trials have proceeded on the basis of her work. In support of this assertion, the Petitioner 
submitted evidence in her response to the Director's RFE from the website https://clinicaltrials.gov, 
and highlighted citations to published research contained in reports on four clinical trials. Those 
research papers, also included in the record, each contain a citation to the Petitioner's survey paper 
described above, either in the introduction or conclusion of the papers. However, while each of these 
papers cite to information from the Petitioner's paper regarding the preferences of orthodontists and 
their patients, none of them build or expand upon these statements, instead focusing on the efficacy of 
certain treatments. In addition to the example of.__ ______ ~s research discussed above, other 
papers reporting clinical trials of orthodontic treatments in the record included a citation of the 
Petitioner's research towards the end of the paper to reflect that the treatment studied met the surveyed 
orthodontists' expectations. This evidence shows that after researching the efficacy of treatments, the 
researchers used the Petitioner's data to evaluate the likelihood of a certain treatment being considered 
worthwhile by orthodontists and patients, but it does not support the Petitioner's assertion that her 
research formed the basis for these clinical trials. 
The Petitioner further asserted in her response to the Director's RFE that her work had led other 
researchers to develop guidelines for orthodontic treatment. She points to a reference letter from 
of the University I I who discusses her research on alveolar ridge '-------------' manipulation procedures. He notes that the Petitioner and her colleagues used two different methods 
to evaluate the outcome of this procedure, which ultimately demonstrated that is superfluous . 
.__ ______ __,indicates that he "directly drew on" these papers in developing a systematic review 
of orthodontic treatments, and states that he and his colleagues reached their conclusion "with the aid 
of [the Petitioner's] insights." He concludes that his review, and another conducted by a different 
group of researchers, "demonstrate the significant influence of [ the Petitioner's] research on clinical 
practice." A partial copy of I I' paper is included in the record, which serves to 
verify his citation of the Petitioner's papers among that of other researchers. However, while this 
evidence establishes that other researchers have built upon this aspect of the Petitioner's work, the 
record does not include evidence supporting her claims that her research has led others to develop 
guidelines that have been implemented or that the conclusions of researchers who built upon her work 
have been adopted by other orthodontists in their clinical work. 
4 
Upon review of the evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's claim to have made original 
contributions of major significance in her field, we disagree with the Director and find that it does not 
support the conclusion that she meets this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw that aspect of the 
Director's decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Specifically, while the evidence establishes that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
for her work as a peer reviewer, it does not demonstrate that this activity places her in the small group 
at the top of her field or is indicative of acclaim at the national or international level. While she 
verified that she is (or was) an editorial board member for the Journal of the World Federation of 
Orthodontists (JWFO), which suggests she took on broader responsibilities including advising of the 
journal's policies, we note that the only evidence of her activity are five emails thanking her for her 
review of papers submitted for publication. In addition, the record does not include information about 
JWFO that would support the Petitioner's assertion that her selection and service as an editorial board 
member for the journal reflects her position at the top of the field. Further, our review of the 
significance of her contributions to the field considered the impact of her published research, and the 
evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's publication record otherwise brought her sustained 
acclaim or elevated standing in her field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17041987 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has played the viola in various orchestras since 1990. Most of his earliest positions were 
in various orchestras inl I In 2002, he joined the~-----~ Symphony, reaching the 
principal viola chair in 2008. The Petitioner later played principal viola with the I I 
Symphony Orchestra and, starting in 2016, thd O lorchestra. The Petitioner 
entered the United States in 2017 as an 0-1 nonimmigrant, following the approval of a petition filed by I I 
We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extraordinary ability. Nevertheless, the 
record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine 
whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. 
The Petitioner makes inconsistent claims about his most recent employment. When the Petitioner 
filed the petition in January 2020, he claimed to still be working forl lfrom "2016-present." 
But in a subsequent response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner asserts that he played for 
c===] "from 2016 -2019 ," meaning the employment ended before he filed the petition. I I 
l_J's 2016 job offer letter specifies a three-year term of employment, but because this letter predates 
the employment, it does not establish that I I actually employed the Petitioner until 2019. An 
itinerary in the record ends at September 2018, which is broadly consistent with U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) records showing that the approval of the 0-1 nonimmigrant petition 
was revoked in September 2018. 
In a July 2019 letter, the manager of thel I Symphony Orchestra states that the 
Petitioner "has played in the orchestra for one season." The present record of proceeding does not 
indicate that the Petitioner was authorized to work in the United States between the September 2018 
revocation of his 0-1 status and January 2020 when he filed the petition. 
2 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (vii) and (viii). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criterion numbered (i). The Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (x), and therefore we consider that issue to 
be abandoned. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only two criteria. 
We will discuss the remaining claimed criterion below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's sole argument on appeal is that he received a nationally recognized award inl~--~ 
and that the Director erred by concluding otherwise. 
In October 2000,_J ---.--~-_,I including the Petitioner, received a certificate which reads, in part: 
This certificate was awarded to 
For the best performance of the I ts composer's work 
In the 
~-------~NATIONAL MUSIC COMPETITION 
(STRING QUARTETS) 
A separate certificate from the same competition indicates that the quartet "was awarded the First Prize." 
It is not clear whether the two certificates refer to the same prize. Although the competition took place 
inl I the certificates are almost entirelj in English. The Petitioner asserts that this "music 
competition is nationally recognized inll' but he submits no evidence to support this claim. The 
assertion that the prize "is named after ... a historically famousl I Composer" is not evidence of 
the prize's recognition. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the prize is nationally 
or internationally recognized. The Director noted, by way of example, that the Petitioner did not show 
that the awarding of the prize attracted any media coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the concert "predates online record keeping -especially forl~--~ 
so finding publications or news stories about the concert is impossible." The Petitioner makes this 
assertion with no evidence. Even ifwe were to accept the Petitioner's unsupported claim that there were 
no online news publications inl I in 2000, this would not rule out the existence of other forms of 
news archives. 
The Petitioner submits a new letter from the founder of thd ..... _______ _____.l in~I -----~ 
Because the RFE did not mention the awards criterion or specifically request any further evidence relating 
to awards, we will consider this new submission now. The individual states that I I founded the I l Music Competition; that the competition included a concert broadcast to "half a 
million international listeners"; and that "[t]he concert was hailed as a success by the International Artist 
Managers' Association in the UK during their I !Orchestras Summit in 2001." 
The Petitioner does not corroborate any of these claims, put forward in a letter written 20 years after the 
fact. A letter from one of the festival's own founders is not evidence of recognition outside the 
organization. And even then, the letter emphasizes the response to the concert rather than the recognition 
accorded to the awards. The Petitioner claims that this individual "states that first prize in the competition 
is recognized as a very high honor," but the letter includes no such assertion about the prize. 
The Petitioner does not establish that the Director erred with respect to the prize that the Petitioner 
received in October 2000. Because this issue is the only stated basis for the appeal, the Petitioner has not 
otherwise established eligibility or overcome the denial of the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for those who are individually at 
the top of their respective fields. Affiliation with well-known establishments is one of many factors 
to be taken into consideration, but does not establish eligibility on its face. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16775641 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an investment firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary 
ability in the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirement of this classification through 
evidence of a major internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and 
reconsider, asserting that the Director did not consider all of the evidence in the record and submitting 
additional reference letters and other evidence. The Director dismissed both motions. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which bas been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is business executive with several years of experience in investment banking. His 
most recent employment abroad involved the management of an investment fund focused on 
agribusiness in Russia, and he served on the board of agribusiness companies. He is currently 
employed by the Petitioner in the United States as its Chieflnvestment Officer, and intends to continue 
in this role. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met one of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material written about him 
and his work as an investment executive. On appeal, 1 the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also 
meets an additional five criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
1 The Petitioner indicated on Form I-290B and in an accompanying letter that it would submit a brief within 30 days of 
filing its appeal. The appeal was submitted on June 23, 2020, and as of the date of this decision, an appeal brief has not 
been received by our office. Our decision will therefore be based upon the basis statement included on Form I-2908. 
2 The Petitioner's basis statement submitted on appeal does not challenge or address the Director's conclusion that the 
evidence did not establish that the Beneficiary met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We therefore consider this 
issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. AttJ' Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has met the initial evidentiary requirement for the 
requested classification and is not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claimed in its motion and in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), that 
honors received by two companies that employed the Beneficiary, 
andl lwere sufficient to meet this criterion. In his ~in-i-ti_a_l _d_e-c1-. s-io_n_,_t_h_e_D_i_r-ec_t_o_r_f_ou_n_d~ 
that the record did not include evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of these awards, that they were 
granted based upon excellence in the field of business, or that they were nationally or internationally 
recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the new evidence submitted with his motion established that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. This new evidence, which was listed but not analyz..,......_ .................... .., 
Director's most recent decision, included a reference letter from CEO of I I and what appear to be press releases concerning the awards for~ _____ __. He 
states that in 2007, the self-re ulatin organization National Association of Stock Market Participants 
NAUFOR awarded and three diplomas: I L 
.__ _______ __., and.__ ____________ ___, However, we note that the record 
does not include eviden f h se diplomas, and an apparent press release article posted on the website 
finrnarket.ru and dated 2007 only lists I I as a nominee in the three cate ories 
mentioned b with the headline stating that the winners of the L...--------r--,.J 
i-------1----.....1 will be announced onl I. This evidence does therefore not confirm 
~----' 's statement, asl lis not named in the article, and I l is not 
named as an award winner but a nominee. In addition, even if these awards had been confirmed, the 
Beneficiary's employer is named as a nominee, not the Beneficiary. 3 For all of these reasons, the 
record does not include evidence showing that the Beneficiary received the I I awards. ~-------~ 
The new evidence submitted on motion also included two articles, one dated I I 20 IO and 
another dated I I 2008, which narnel I Company as a "laureate" 
of the Russian Collective Investment Market corn etition. The 20 IO article states that the company 
won in the category, and the 2008 article indicates that it won 
in the ~------------' category. We again note that the evidence indicates that a 
company received these awards, not the Beneficiary. In addition, no information is provided regarding 
the source and publication of these articles. Neither lists an author, and there is no indication that the 
2010 article was posted on a website or was published in print form. The 2008 article was obtained 
from the website tatcenter.ru, but no information is provided about the nature of this website. We 
therefore conclude that this evidence does not show that the Beneficiary received either award. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14. Page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
In addition, a letter was submitted with the motion which was signed byl I, CEO ofl~-~ 
c=]and a professional associate of the Beneficiary. He writes that the Beneficiary was a member of 
the board of directors ot1 I the managing company ofl I and that "thanks to the 
personal contribution of [the Beneficiary] and his team," the company's products were awarded the I I sign. This is similar to the statement made in a letter from I I I [ managing partner at a Russian investment and 
management fund, who indicates that both this designation and a ~-----------~ were bestowed onl las a result of the Beneficiary's work for the company. However, as with 
the awards discussed above, the record does not include evidence of any certificate, diploma or other 
physical evidence verifying thatl !received these awards. Also, these awards, like those above, 
are asserted to have been granted to the Beneficiary's employer, not to him personally. Finally, there 
is no indication in the record that these awards are granted based upon excellence in the field of 
business, or that they are nationally or internationally recognized. 
Turning to an award which the Petitioner asserted was given to the Beneficiary, we note that it did not 
specifically address its previous claim to this criterion based upon the his designation as a I I ~------------~ on motion or appeal. However, we agree with the Director's 
determination in his initial decision that the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the 
Beneficiary received this award, or that it is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Accordingly, after review of the evidence submitted, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's membership in NAUFOR and his election as a board 
member of that association qualifies under this criterion. Concerning membership in the association, 
it submitted articles from several sources which supplement the information included in its regulations 
and articles of association, which were submitted in response to the Director's RFE. An article from 
the website opentrainer.ru states that in addition to being a resident of the Russian Federation and 
having a securities license from the Central Bank of Russia, members must "submit an application for 
membership, pay a contribution of 30,000 rubles, and also pay annual fees, which for various 
organizations range from 100 to 540 thousand rubles per year ... " Another article, from investlb.com, 
states that "contributions are differentiated depending on the available licenses." However, 
membership requirements based only on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education 
or experience, standardized test scores, grade point average, recommendations by colleagues or current 
members, or payment of dues, do not satisfy this criterion, as such requirements do not constitute 
outstanding achievements. In addition, the record does not include information regarding the 
requirements for obtaining a securities license from the Central Bank of Russia. We therefore 
conclude that the Beneficiary's membership in NAUFOR does not meet this criterion. 
As for his service as a board member for this organization, the Petitioner refers again to the letter from I I who indicates that he was a member of the board of directors from 2004 to 2008, and 
4 
that Beneficiary served in the same role from 2005 to 2008.4 He writes that the board is elected every 
two years by members during the association's general meeting, and consisted of 22 members during 
this period. This evidence repeats information contained within NAUFOR's regulations, articles of 
association, and press release submitted in response the Director's RFE, and does not specify any 
outstanding achievements that board members must have completed in order to be nominated as a 
candidate or elected as a member of the board of directors. Although the Petitioner focused on the 
reputation of the association in his motion brief, this is not one of the elements found in the plain 
language of this criterion. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion through either his general membership or his election to the board of NAUFOR. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director concluded that the record included evidence of published material which met this 
criterion. Upon review, we note that many of the articles which were submitted include quotations 
from the Benefici~but are not about him. For example, an article posted on the website 
agroinvestor.ru on 2015 titled 1 I quotes him as 
the managing partner of which owns the subject company. The Beneficiary explains the market 
conditions in China, but the article is not about him, but about the company's desire to enter the 
Chinese pork market. Another example was an article published in Vedomosti titled I I I , I' in which the Beneficiary is one of several interviewed regarding the raising of the minimum 
equity standard for management companies in Russia. Articles that are not about the petitioner do not 
meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
One article submitted by the Petitioner is about the Beneficiary, as it focuses on him and his career in 
the field. An interview which appeared in the I I 2015 print edition ofl I as well as 
on the magazine's website, features him on the cover and includes a short biography, and goes into 
great depth regarding the investment plans ofl I As to whether! I is a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media, the Petitioner did not submit information about its print 
circulation, but included a website report from SimilarWeb. The report indicates tha~ I 
has a country rank of 32,227 and a category rank (Business and Industry) of 41,296, with over 89,000 
monthly visits. In comparison, the same report for vedomosti.ru shows a country rank of 315, with 
more than 11.2 million monthly visits. This evidence regarding! I is insufficient to 
establish that it is a major professional trade medium, given its ranking in the business category, or a 
major medium, especially when compared with vedomosti.ru. We therefore disagree with the 
Director's decision and conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
4 We note that an article posted on the website mfd.ru oJ l 2005 indicate~ that the ~enetkiary elected to the board 
ofl lalong with 16 others for a one-year term, and that I lis not listed as one of the 
other board members. This evidence, in addition to other evidence in the record regarding NAUFOR, is therefore 
inconsistent in several ways with! . Is statement about the Beneficiary's term of service as a NAUFOR board 
member, and we will consider only his two-year term beginning onl ~006 as evidenced by the submitted press 
release from NAUFOR's website. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, an individual must establish that they served in either a leading or 
critical role, and that the organization or establishment for which they served in such a role had a 
distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the individual was a leader. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role was leading. On the other 
hand, if the individual claims to have served in a critical role, the evidence must establish that they 
have contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. Here, it is not the title of the individual's role, but rather their performance 
in the role that determines whether the role was critical. 5 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's role withe=] and its holdings I I andl I 
,___ ______ ___,as well as withl land I I and NAUFOR, were 
leading or critical for those organizations. In his initial decision, the Director acknowledged the 
recommendation letters in the record which described the Beneficiary's work and role, but concluded 
that they lacked sufficient detail to show that his role was leading or critical. On motion, the Petitioner 
submitted three additional reference letters in support of this criterion, while asserting that the 
previously submitted letters included details regarding the Beneficiary's role. 
Per a reference letter froml !Managing Partner 0-11----...,_d Chairman ot1 I's 
board of directors, the Beneficiary was a board member for both and its co orate parent 
I I as well as a managing partner for I I According to~--~-- ..... his duties 
in these roles included raising financing, researching suppliers and domestic and overseas partners, 
supervising merger and acquisition transactions, and financial management oft~e two comnanies. He 
states that under the Beneficiary's "close involvement in the management of_ }' three 
pork production and processing complexes were developed. In addition, "due to the personal 
contribution of [the Beneficiary] and his team,'i ~ecame the0 largest pork producer in the 
Russian Federation and earned the I I recognition. Copies of minutes of 
several meetings of the I I board of directors confirms that the Beneficiary took part in such 
decisions, and that he thus played a leading role for the company. However, the record does not 
include further information about the 1 I seal and its requirements or prestige 
which would demonstrate that it brought a distinguished reputation to the company. In addition, the 
record indicates that the award given to the company which is translated as both 1 t' and I I is given to "consumers of electricity from the regional energy retail companies of the 
Inter RAO Group," but also does not include further information which show that it is a prestigious or 
coveted award in the industry. Although the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary played a leading 
role forl I it has not established that the company enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
Turning more broadly to the Beneficia 's role for~andl I, the Petitioner also submitted 
a reference letter fro irector oft I He writes that he worked with the ~~"---~---.----~ 
Beneficiary in his role as head of 's audit committee and member of its board of directors 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. P. 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 
from 2011, and that the Beneficiary was "instrumental to Os growth." I I states that the 
Beneficiary's "expertise in investment management, financial control and agribusiness has been 
invaluable to growing the holclinscompanr- .. " However, he does not describe with sufficient detail 
how the Beneficiary ledc=] or_ _ or played a critical role in the successes en·o ed by these 
companies. Similarly, a letter fro I President and CEO of also does 
~ovide details to support his assertion that the Beneficiary played a critical role for.__ __ _. and 
L_J nor does he explain how he gained personal knowledge of the internal decisions and processes 
of these companies. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's role forl lthe Petitioner also references letters from the 
Beneficiary's business associates who state that they are familiar with this aspect of his career in 
business. I I chairman of the board of I I confirms that the 
Beneficiary served as head of the bank's investment division and also as General Director of0 
.__ _____ _.lfrom 20066 to January 2008. He writes that the Beneficiary's duties in these positions 
included development of business plans for these businesses, organizing and coordinating the issuance 
of the bank's Eurobonds, and developing and introducing index-based funds and portfolio 
management products. He also notes the award nominations for .__ ______ ~ an~ I 
,__ __ _.I which include six regional award nominations in addition to the three national nominations 
discussed above. 
A very similar letter was written b~ I Se;ccn=io:;..:r'--V~ic:;..:e;....;P~r:;..:e=s=id=e=n=t....;;a.;.;.tl..,..___,.----~~H=e~n~o~te=s...., 
that the Beneficiary "made it possible to establish ofl lan~.___ ______ ____.I 
from the ground up ... ," noting that the two companies employed 150 workers at the end of 2007 and 
managed assets of more than 10 billion rubles. Based on these reference letters, evidence regarding 
the nomination of I land its subsidiary for regional and national awards, and other 
evidence regarding the company, we conclude that the Beneficiary's employment with this company 
meets the requirements of this criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner also focused in its motion on the Beneficiary's service with NAUFOR, as 
supported by the reference letter from I I and other evidence about the organization. As 
previously noted, the evidence shows that the Beneficiary was elected as a board member for a two­
year term beginning onl I 2006. I ) ~ states that the Beneficiary was a member of 
two subcommittees, which he indicates "developed a number of the most important operation 
standards for brokerage, dealer and management companies" as well as "regulatory documents for the 
stock market." He goes on to indicate that these standards "formed the basis for federal legislation on 
securities and markets." However, he does not indicate that the Beneficiary served in a leadership role 
as one of 22 members of NA UFO R's board of directors, nor does the letter or other evidence in the 
record provide specifics about his role in the drafting of standards and regulatory documents for the 
securities field. 
Based upon the evidence of the Beneficiary's role withl land~------~I we 
disagree with the Director's decision and find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
6 An employment contract between~! _____ ~land the Beneficiary, submitted in response to the Director's RFE, 
is dated August I 0, 2006. 
7 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In order to show that an individual meets this criterion, the evidence must establish that their salary is 
high relative to others working in the field working in the same occupation and location. 7 The 
Petitioner submitted translated copies of Form 2-NDFL, Statement oflncome of an Individual, for the 
years 2013, 2014, and 2015. Those forms indicate that in those years, the Beneficij received a salary 
from thel I and! 0 J , , 0 J O ~ of approximately 
P 9.3M, P 11.6M, and P 11.2M, respectively. As previously noted, the record indicates that he served 
as a member of the I I board of directors during this period, as well as a managing partner of 
I J ,vhich was the main shareholder o~ I 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a salary report from payscale.com as a reference. That report, dated 
October 8, 2019, showed the annual salary range for a CEO inl I with 10 years of experience. 
It indicated that the median salary for this position and location was P3M, and that 75% of those earned 
less than Pl IM. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a second report from 
salaryexplorer.com. This report indicated that the median salary for CEOs in Russia was 
approximately P2.65M, and that salaries at the 75th percentile were approximately P3.42M. It also 
indicated that inl lthe average CEO salary was P3.02M, but did not provide figures for the 
high or low end of the salary range. 
The Director found in his initial decision that this evidence was insufficient to show that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. On motion, the Petitioner referred to the report from 
salaryexplorer.com as new evidence, despite having already submitted it with its RFE response, and 
did not otherwise present new arguments. Upon review, we note that both salary reTorts indicate that 
the Beneficiary's salary in these three years was well above average for a CEO in_ I but are 
inconsistent regarding the highest salaries for this position, with the 75% salary from payscale.com 
greatly exceeding the maximum national salary from salaryexplorer.com of approximately P 4M, and 
the payscale.com report not reflecting the salaries of top CEOs. We also note that it is not apparent 
whether the amounts paid to the Beneficiary byl I included salary for his service as a board 
member alone or also included his pay as a managing partner ofl I In addition, the different 
"income codes" displayed on the Forms 2-NDFL are not explained, which calls into question whether 
the forms show both salary and bonuses and other forms of remuneration which are not accounted for 
in the submitted salary reports. Therefore, after review, we agree with the Director conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the evidence that the Beneficiary's salary was 
high compared to other similarly situated individuals in the field of business. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
7 See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salaiy of other NHL defensemen). 
8 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, and 
case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant 
petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US 
Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service 
centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between 
a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. 
La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
As noted above, although we find that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the 
criterion relating to his leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, we 
withdraw the Director's conclusion that he meets the criterion regarding published material about him. 
In addition, we conclude that he also does not meet three additional criteria. Although the Petitioner 
asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to his 
contributions of major significance to the field, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17184754 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al . I coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
had sustained national or international acclaim in his field and was one of the small percentage of 
those volleyball coaches at the top of the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed as al lathlete for several years as a member of teams in the top 
1 · Ukraine, Italy, France, and Greece. He is currently employed as a master coach with the 
thletic Club d/b/a I I and states that he wishes to continue working as a 
coach and athlete in the United States, with the goal of starting his ownl lclub. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser awards, membership in an 
association in his field, and his judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material about him, original 
contributions of major significance to the field, and leading or critical roles for organizations with a 
distinguished reputation. 1 After reviewing all of the previously submitted evidence in the record, we 
disagree with the Director's conclusions regarding two criteria and partially withdraw his decision as 
detailed below. 2 
1 In counsel's brief: he did not contest the findings of the director regarding the criterion relating to a high salary at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) or offer additional arguments. We therefore consider this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda 
v. U.S. Att'.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 
at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30. 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on 
appeal to the AAO). 
2 We note that the Petitioner has submitted new evidence with his appeal brief. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put 
on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opp01iunity to respond to that deficiency. the AAO will 
not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter ol Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ol 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore not consider this new evidence in our analysis. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner was a member of~l ___ ~I teams which received the 
highest awards in competition at the national level, including: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• I 2005-06, I 
2006-07, 
2007-08, 
2008-09 
2013-14 
2014-15 I Super~ League I I champion season, second place league cup,I.__ __ ___. 
I 
I second place season, second place leaguµc!J.JJt..!::::s;~= ... 
ond place season, champion league c......,....---.~ sec 
cha rnpion season, charn ion lea ue cu 
I second pla ce league cup,~------.-------.===;--->"' 
firs t place league cup, second place seaso .....__ _ ____. 
As the evidence shows that the Petitioner played an important role for these teams and was one of a 
small number of contributors to the award, we conclude that this evidence shows that he meets this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner also claimed thatl ~ a team he was a member of for the 
2016-17 and 2017-18 seasons, won third place in the I League championship, but we note 
that the evidence of this consists only of a page from a Wikipedia article. As there are no assurances 
about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia 
will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Laamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th 
Cir. 2008). 3 In addition, a letter from the President of1 I does not mention this award, and the 
record does not include images of a trophy or certificate acknowledging the award. The Petitioner has 
therefore not established that the team received this award. 
The record also includes evidence of individual awards received by the Petitioner, which include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 2008,.__ _______ ____. tournament, Best Playerl I 
2015, Most Valuable Player, Garnes 5 and 9 ofl 1 , , 1 , I 
2016-17, I I League besJ player! of the regular season ("all-star tearn"j 
May 2017, Most Valuable Player 's Cup Tournament in~I ---------~ 
3 See also the online content from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia: General_disclaimer, accessed on May 10, 
2021, and copy incorporated into the record of proceeding is subject to the following general disclaimer: 
WIKIPEDIA MAKES NO GUARANTEE OF VALIDITY. Wikipedia is an online open-content 
collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop 
a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet 
connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed 
by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information ... 
. Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given aiiicle 
may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not conespond 
with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. 
3 
The evidence shows that the I I League "all-star team" was selected by a jury of journalists 
and league coaches and reported in L 'Equipe, a national sports newspaper. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion upon his membership in the I I national men's 
.__ __ ___.I team. A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate 
eligibility for this criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous 
selection process. It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that he meets every element 
of a given criterion. We will not assume that every national team is sufficiently exclusive and requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their fields or disciplines. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from I I president of the l,r------,. ___ ___J 
Federation, who confirms that he was a member of the Ukrainian men's national I team from 
2009 to 2018. I I states that national team members are selected "on the competitive basis," 
and is based upon their "performance of target programs and plans of training for the corresponding 
year." He further writes that the coaches of the national team are responsible for choosing the athletes 
for the national team based upon "observing the players' acts during the game and through studying 
of their individual statistics during the game season, as well as the player's compliance with the 
playing type and model results of the competitive activities." I I does not identify any 
specific benchmarks required of national team members, and the letter does not explain how the 
"performance of target programs and plans of training" and "compliance with the playing type and 
model results" are outstanding achievements. While he notes that the Petitioner earned a "Master of 
Sports" title as a member of thd,__ __ ___,khampionship team, he does not indicate that this or other 
achievements were requirements or led directly to his selection to the national team. In addition,D I Is letter is not supported by any corroborating documentation such as official mies or selection 
procedures for the national team. We therefore disagree with the Director's conclusion and find that 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the.field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged that several articles about the Petitioner and hi~~------' 
career had been submitted, but he found that the evidence did not establish that any of the media in 
which these articles appeared were one of the qualifyins types under this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner focuses on articles published on thel J websitd I and sport.ua, as well 
as midilibre.fr and sport-fin.gr, and the interview of him carried on Greek television channel 
"Novasports." Although all of these media published articles about the Petitioner and his work as a 
4 
~--~I player, the evidence does not establish that any of them are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
In support of his assertion that these media are one of the qualifying types, the Petitioner submitted 
varyinJ sources of information. Regarding thel lua website, which published an interview of 
him o I 201 7, 4 as well as a brief story about his transfer tol ,I he included a website 
traffic report from SiteSTMT.com and another from websiteoutlook.com. These provided metrics 
such as "daily pageviews" (between 2,450 and 3,920) and ranks (612,029 and 449,133, respectively), 
but does not provide any other context showing that these websites qualify as mjjor meTa. Similarly, 
sport.ua published two interviews of the Petitioner, onl I 2008 and 2018, and he 
submitted information about this website from hostinfo.pw and similarweb.com. The former indicated 
that sport.ua has 53,935 visitors per day, while the latter charted "visits" per month at between 5 
million and IO million. While this information suggests that sport.ua is a more popular website than I I it does not establish that it qualifies as major media when compared to all media in 
I 
As mentioned above, the record also includes evidence from other media types that published material 
about the Petitioner and his work as al I athlete, including the French newspaper Midi Libre 
and the Greek television channel "Novasports." The information from the newspaper's website 
indicates that it is a regional newspaper, and that the entire portfolio of newspapers, magazines and 
internet sites maintained by the Journaux du Midi publishing group enjoys readership of 837,000 per 
day. This information is not specific to Midi Libre, and is insufficient to establish that it qualifies as 
major media. Nor is the information provided from the website of Novasports, which is marketing 
material and provides no relevant data to show that it is a major medium in Greece. 
The evidence also includes other articles about the Petitioner and hisl I career, published on 
websites such as hotsport.ua, sibsport.info, and~ _____ __, but he did not submit evidence to 
establish that these media were one of the qualifying types under this criteria. Therefore, based upon 
the analysis above, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his decision the Director concluded, based upon evidence of the Petitioner's qualification as a 
referee and his service as an honorary judge at al I tournament, that he meets this 
criterion. The evidence submitted in support of this criterion also includes the 0' s regulations 
4 The Petitioner also submitted an interview of the Petitioner published on this website oir:=] ?.020 in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, months after the petition was filed. Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 
8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(1). (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be 
approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi. 22 I&N Dec. 
169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille. 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), further provides that 
USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. We will 
therefore not consider this article in our analysis. 
5 
regarding! !referees, which describes the qualifications and age limits for referees but does 
not explain the role or duties of a referee. 
As evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others, an article orts.ua on 
02018 notes that the Petitioner was an honored guest of the........,. ____________ ___, 
tournament, and also served as a referee. In addition, a letter fro ~-.,.,..,.........,....,--,----....,...,... president of 
the I I states that this tournament was "held in compliance with the 
international rules of I of the I I and are serviced by the qualified referees." 
Although this evidence also does not explain the role of al 7 referee, we note that th~ I 
....._ _____________ ~ with whichl !stated the tournament complies 
indicates that the function of a referee, among other pre-match duties, is to "issue warnings to the 
teams; to sanction misconduct and delays," and to decide upon various faults by the players during the 
match. In other words, it indicates that~ !referee enforces the officia!L I rules, rather 
than judging the performance of the players by awarding points or exercising his judgment by 
determining a winner. As such, the Petitioner's service as a referee is not sufficient to establish that 
he participated as a judge of the work of othe~ I players or coaches, as opposed to ensuring 
that they followed the official rules. 6 We disagree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that a petitioner's work has significantly impacted the 
field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions 
have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, 
or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner stresses that he has made contributions to the field as a I I athlete and 
coach. As evidence of his coaching contributions, he refers to a letter froml I dated May 
8, 2020, which indicates that he served as an assistant coach ofthel !national men'sl I 
team during the 2016-17 season. Whil~ I indicates that the Petitioner is "a highly trained 
professional and has earned the great respect of his colleagues," he does not state that the Petitioner's 
performance as an assistant coach resulted in contributions that widely impacted or influenced the 
team, let alone the field ofl I We further note that this letter is not corroborated by other 
evidence of the Petitioner's role as an assistant coach during a period that he was competing as a player 
for this team, and was not mentioned inl I's initial correspondence. 
Turning to his contributions as al I athlete, the Petitioner focuses on the previously discussed 
evidence of his participation on several professional European teams as well as thtj I national 
team, including the statistics showing his performance in individual matches in European tournaments. 
Although the match statistics show that he played well in those matches and contributed to his teams' 
effort, they do not demonstrate that those athletic contributions impacted the overall field ofl I 
5 https:/....._ _________________ ~accessed on May 11, 20,_,, J~-~ 
6 The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his "Provisional Referee Ce1iificate" from USAI I but did not submit 
evidence that he has perfmmed as a referee in the United States. Fmiher, the evidence does not establish that participating 
as al I referee in the United States would satisfy this criterion. 
6 
The same can be said of the Petitioners designations as a "best player" and "most valuable player" for 
games, tournaments, and seasons. In all cases, his acknowledged athletic efforts contributed to the I I team for which he was competing, and have not been shown to have made a broader, 
significant impact on the sport as a whole. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a critical role is one in which an individual has contributed in a way that is if significant 
importance to the outcome of an organization's activities. 7 In his decision, the Director stated that 
reference letters submitted by the Petitioner did not provide sufficient detail regarding his role for the I lteams that he played for to meet this criterion. He further noted that the evidence was not 
sufficient to show that his current employer, thel .-------,I has a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on his role as anl I for the numerous I !teams that 
he played for during his career, claiming that it "is already a critical position in itself" While he refers 
to newly submitted evidence, the original submission also included information regarding the I I I I position. That evidence, from! • , l states that ~-----------~ ~~-.-------.---~ and are "considered to be the most reliable," but does not indicate that 
the position is more or less important or critical than any other on al I team. More importantly, 
unlike a leading role which may be inherent in a specific position or title, it is a petitioner's 
contribution to an organization's success which determines whether he or she has played a critical role 
to that organization, not the nature of the role itself. As the Petitioner notes.I I is a team sport, 
and we do not find the evidence sufficient to show that he meets this criterion based upon his position 
alone. 
The Petitioner next focuses on newly submitted match reports which focus on individual games for 
three of the teams for which he played, which we will also not consider. We note that he received 
"Most Valuable Player" awards for individual matches in the 2015C7 Cup while plaving for I I as well as for thdf s Cup Tournament inl lfor th{ I 
national team. He also prevTous'Iy submitted evidence showing his ranking in certain I I 
metrics for specific matches. But these awards and statistics do not establish that the Petitioner played 
a critical role in any overall success these teams enjoyed over the course of an entirel I season, 
which is a more relevant gauge of the overall success of the organization. 
As noted in our analysis of the criterion relating to lesser awards, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that he was selected as one of the best players for the 2016-17 season in thel I 
League, one of twol I athletes so named. In addition, a letter from the president o~ I states 
that the Petitioner "contributed greatly to our top-notch sports team and its qualification for the 
European Cup, a first for the Club for nearly 10 years." However, this letter does not provide details 
about the criticality of the Petitioner's role fo~ I Therefore, this evidence does not establish 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
7 
that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role for the team. Further, although the evidence 
indicates that the team was somewhat successful in the 2016-1 7 season, winning second place in the I lleague and returninf to the European Cup, it does not show that I I had built a 
distinguished reputation amongst I teams. 
The Petitioner also assert~ that he meets this criterion based upon his current role as a master coach 
with the I J The Director's decision noted that the reference letters, including that 
submitted by his current employer, were not sufficiently detailed to show that the Petitioner's role was 
leading or critical, and also concluded that the evidence did not establish that this organization enjoyed 
a distinguished reputation. On apveal, the Petitioner refers to a letter dated July 12, 2020, from the I ~xecutive Director,L I who states that he is one of four coaches employed 
by the club who is qualified to teach its highest level high school athletes. He goes on to state that the 
Petitioner coached the club's top team in the previous year, which was cut short by the COVID 19 
pandemic, and is scheduled to do so in the following year. This letter primarily indicates that the 
Petitioner's presence is important to the future recrnitment and development of athletes, and does not 
show that the Petitioner has already played a critical role that has been shown to be of importance to 
any success enjoyed by thel I organization. 
A second letter froml ldated August 8, 2020, states that the Petitioner directed the clubs 
boys national I I program, and that under his direction the teams qualified for the national 
tournament, with one earning a silver medal at the tournament. However, although the evidence 
includes tournament brackets with players' names hiPhlighted by the Petitioner, this evidence includes 
no reference to the Petition or thel ! We therefore agree with the Director that the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner has played a leading or critical role for 
his current employer. 
In addition, we also agree that the record does not include evidence which establishes that thd~--~ [ I has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that "it is one of the best l ., lin Texas, also well known around the U.S." However, he does not refer to specific 
evidence to support this assertion, either on appeal or in his response to the Director's request for 
evidence. The evidence of a single third place win in a tournament which is directly tied to thd I ~-~I is insufficient to show that it enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the reasons provided in the above analysis, we conclude that the evidence does not establish 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
After our review and partial withdrawal of the Director's decision, we conclude that the Petitioner has 
not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet 
at least three of the ten criteria. We therefore need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. However, as the Director conducted a final merits 
analysis which the Petitioner asserts misapplied USCIS policy and precedent, we will briefly review 
those assertions and the merits of the Petitioner's claim under this standard. 
8 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his final merits determination by not considering the 
totality of the evidence, but reviewed each criterion individually. We note that while the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner met three criteria, his discussion of the evidence related to these and other 
criteria in the final merits determination applied the elements from these criteria again instead of 
considering whether, as part of the balance of the record, it established that the Petitioner has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The record shows that the Petitioner competed as ~ I player at the national level in his own 
country, and went on to compete at the top professional level in other European countries as well. 
However, USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, although the Petitioner demonstrated that he received a level of national 
acclaim as an athlete, most notably withl I he did not show that this acclaim was sustained or 
that his achievements were frequently or widely reported upon in major sports or news media. Further, 
although he representedl I as a national team member and competed for nationally successful 
professional teams inl land Greece, the record does not establish that his participation in these 
teams' national success placed him among the small percentage oti I athletes at the top of the 
field. The evidence does not show that these teams were among those achieving success at the highest 
levels ofi !competition, or that his individual performance elevated him to the same status as 
athletes successfully competing at the highest international level. The evidence was also insufficient 
to show that he was compensated at a rate commensurate with that of an elite professiona~ I 
athlete. 
Regarding his work as al lcoach, which he intends to continue in the United States, the 
Petitioner states on appeal that the Director failed to consider his recent transition to this new phase of 
his career, and relies upon our non-precedent decision in Matter of K-S-Y-(AAO Mar. 9 2016). This 
decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Although that decision involved 
a similar transition from coach to athlete as is present here, we found that the petitioner in that case 
had established sustained acclaim and status near the top of his field through his success as an athlete 
at the national and international level. Here, we do not conclude that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability as a I I athlete, or as a coach. Further, in considTing I ~ his area of expertise includes the coaching otj I athletes, we noted above that 
L__Js letter concerning his role as an assistant coach for thel I national team is not 
corroborated by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
9 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20754998 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 27, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not establish the Petitioner 's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a miniatures artist specializing in folk art and I I miniatures 
who has displayed his work at numerous exhibitions, showcases and trade fairs around the world. He 
states that he intends to continue his work as a miniatures artist in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material, judging, authorship of scholarly 
articles, and artistic display, and we agree with that determination. However, the Director concluded 
that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's determination that he has not earned sustained 
national or international acclaim was erroneous, and further asserts that the Director erred in 
determining that he did not meet two additional initial evidentiary criteria relating to lesser awards and 
original contributions of major significance. We note, however, that once the Petitioner satisfies at 
least three of the regulatory criteria, the focus shifts to whether the evidence establishes that he has the 
necessary status and acclaim in the field. As the Director found that the Petitioner meets four criteria, 
any items that might relate to other criteria are better considered in the context of the final merits 
analysis.1 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the record is not indicative of the 
necessary level of acclaim and status in the field. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner offered one article about him published in 2016. This 
single article, however, does not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage is consistent with the 
sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner also submitted evidence demonstrating that his 
biography appeared in the 2018-2019 volume of Who 's Who in Visual Art, published by Art Domain 
Whois Publisher, Germany. According to the documentation submitted, the Petitioner's one-paragraph 
biography appeared along with 100 other brief biographies of artisans, craftspeople and designers in this 
volume. Appearing in a volume with a large number of other individuals is not indicative of national 
acclaim or status among the small percentage at the top of the field. 
The Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with 
being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his 
activities reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field. or a very high standard to present more 
extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.2 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as a judge/juror for exhibitions including 
in 2010 and thel !Music Festival and Art Show in 2016. However, while the evidence 
submitted confirms his participation and shows that he has achieved some level of recognition for his 
work in the field, it does not establish that these exhibitions are prestigious or that selection as a judge 
for these events is reserved for those artists at the top of the field. The Petitioner did not show, for 
example, how his judging experience compares to others at the very top of the field, and he has not 
established that these instances place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence 
that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed individuals in his field, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
2 See id. (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one 
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 3 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner authored one magazine and one newspaper article in 2016. However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of two documents in a one-year period is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that his authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For instance, the Petitioner did not show the significance of his authorships 
or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Regarding the public display of his artwork, the evidence shows that the Petitioner's work has been 
displayed at craft shows, fairs, and showcases, primarily inl I as well as at international 
artistic exhibitions. The record, however, does not include evidence which demonstrates that any of 
the named craft shows and fairs attracted anything other than local interest or garnered acclaim for the 
Petitioner and his work. Similarly, although the record reflects that the display of the Petitioner's 
work at various artistic exhibitions in cities such asl I might suggest broader acclaim for the 
Petitioner, the record contains insufficient evidence of the attention garnered by such exhibitions. 
Beyond the four criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, discussed above, we 
consider additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the 
evidence demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons 
discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his receipt of the I Special Achievement Medal in 
thel category ofl I an International Fine Arts Competition presented bye I in 2016. While the Petitioner's receipt of this award demonstrates some level of 
recognition, the record does not include evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers, 
nor is there evidence that this competition is prestigious or well-known such that this award was 
nationally or internationally recognized and brought acclaim of that scope to the Petitioner. In 
addition, the record does not include information about this competition, its categories, and the number 
and type of medals and other awards issued. The Petitioner did not demonstrate that his receipt of this 
single award is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor does the record as a whole reflect such acclaim or include extensive 
documentation demonstrating that his achievements have been recognized in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate and a letter from I l the Association of Folk Artists, 
Craftsmen and Artists of in which the Chairman of the I I 
Department stated that the Petitioner was accepted as a member in 2006 and that he is a current and 
full member of the association. The Petitioner also submitted copies of letters from other artists who 
recommended him for membership based upon his achievements and skill inl I 
miniatures. These letters, however, do not reflect that membership requires outstanding achievements 
in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field.4 For example, while the letter from 
3 See id. (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they were indicative of being one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international 
acclaim). 
4 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); see also 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra, at F.2. 
4 
___ indicates that admission "is granted on the recommendation of Art Experts Council 
composed solely of nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk art 
and based on the applicant's artistic achievements and potential for future development in the field," 
the Petitioner has not provided documentary evidence, such as the organization's bylaws or 
information on the composition of the Art Experts Council to corroborate these claims. The Petitioner 
has not provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that this association limits its membership to 
individuals with renowned endeavors nor has he otherwise demonstrated the significance of this 
membership such that it contributes to a finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner also claims that he invented a new and unique method for painting miniaturesD 
and and submits reference letters from artists and others in the art world who provide their thoughts 
on this technique as well as his other contributions to the field. 5 This testimonial evidence indicates 
that the Petitioner's artistic skills as a miniaturist are highly regarded by his peers. However, the letters 
do not identify with specificity how he has remarkably impacted or influenced the field and that he 
has received sustained and widespread acclaim for his unique contributions. 
For example,! I Director of the indicates that his 
museum has acquired and is honored to dis la the Petitioner's work, and notes that the Petitioner's 
perfection of the special process makes his works "utterly unique." I I I I Fine Arts Chair for Fine Art, generally praises the Petitioner's art 
and states that his many accomplishments in the field "unquestionabl illustrate" his extraordinary 
talent and ability. I I artist and board member o Fine Art states 
that he had not seen the Petitioner's technique of painting pr prior to the 
Exhibition in 2018, but after seeing it he "is positive that the Petitioner has made a contribution of 
major significance to the development of miniature art." I I al lartist, 
generally compliments the Petitioner's work and describes his techniques as "very picturesque and 
illustrative." 
While the writers compliment the Petitioner's work, none of the writers explain how his technique of 
painting I I represents an "original contribution," nor do they address the impact of this technique 
or any of his other innovations on the field. Neither the letters nor the evidence as a whole indicates 
that the Petitioner has been recognized for making an original contribution of major significance based 
on his work. Also, although the statements in these letters describe his work as innovative, they do 
not indicate that others in the field have adopted elements of or have been inspired by the Petitioner's 
work in creating their own art. While these letters suggest that the Petitioner'sDtechnique, and body 
of work generally, have directly impacted the letter writers in their artistic approaches, their statements 
are not indicative of original contributions in the field with a wider impact consistent with "major 
significance," nor do their statements support a finding that the Petitioner has received national or 
international acclaim as a result ofhisOtechnique or general body of work with miniatures. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The record does not contain sufficient evidence distinguishing the 
Petitioner from others in the field and does not demonstrate that his achievements are at a level that 
5 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
places him among the small percentage at the top of the field. Nor does the evidence establish that he 
has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level, or that it is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59; see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his 
standing among his peers in the field of miniature art, it does not establish that he is yet one of that 
small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8044293 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a motion picture production designer and art director, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner worked on several student films as an art director or production designer in conjunction 
with her studies at the~--------------~ Since that time, she has worked on 
major motion pictures as an art department assistant and assistant art director, culminating in an art 
director credit for I I At the time of filing, the Petitioner was an art director for I land I I which have not yet been completed. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met seven criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed evidentiary criteria. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets two of the criteria, relating, 
respectively, to published material about the alien and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 
We discuss the various criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner worked on several films that won various awards, but she does not establish that she 
received those awards. The Petitioner asserts that awards given to groups or teams can satisfy this 
criterion; the Petitioner cites the example of Olympic team medals, and concludes that she need not be 
2 
"the direct recipient of a prize or award." However, each competing member of a medaling Olympic 
team receives their own medal. The Petitioner has not shown that she meets the wording of the regulation, 
which calls for evidence of "the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards, rather than participation in award­
winning projects. 
Furthermore, the documentation in the record does not simply identify award-winning projects. It 
identifies other individuals, usually directors or producers, as the award winners. For instance, regarding 
the filml I the Petitioner states that she "served as a core member of the creative team, and [was] 
therefore rightfully honored as a winner of the Ostudent Academy Bronze Award." The press release 
from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences specifically identifies the film's director as the 
winner of the award. 
The Petitioner submits several newspaper and magazine articles saying that she won a Student Academy 
Award forl I but the regulation calls for "documentation of the alien's receipt" of the award. 
Third-party media coverage is not documentation that she received the award, and the Petitioner does not 
submit any documentation from the Academy itself to confirm that the Academy presented the Petitioner 
with the award. 
The Petitioner cites an unpublished appellate decision from 2003, indicating that a petitioner's 
involvement in an award-winning project is sufficient to satisfy the criterion. That decision never had 
the force of precedent, and any informal guidance that the decision might have provided was 
superseded in 2010 by the issuance of a policy memorandum that emphasizes that "the focus should 
be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the 
awards or prizes."1 
Some award materials do mention the Petitioner by name, and we will consider those here. Cine Gear 
Expo named the filml I among its c=]Film Series Winners." The festival's website identified 
eight people involved with making the film, including the Petitioner. The Petitioner, however, did not 
establish that this award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Cine Gear Expo also named the Petitioner among the makers of I lin a list of "Finalists," but the 
record does not show that I lwon the award in question. The regulation requires "receipt of ... 
prizes or awards," rather than nomination for prizes or awar,s that otherf received instead. (Even further 
removed from an actual award, the director and producer ofl._ ____ _._ were shortlisted as finalists for 
an Academy Award nomination, but did not receive that nomination. For several reasons, this is not 
documentation of the Petitioner's receipt of a prize or award.) 
I I was also am1ng thl nominees for "Best Production Design I Art Direction" at "thel I 
FilmQuest Festival" in The Petitioner was the film's production designer, and therefore a "Best 
Production Design" award would directly acknowledge her work. But, again, the record does not show 
that the film actually won the prize for which it was nominated. Nominations for recognized awards may 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 6 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 
be considered in the context of a final merits determination, but the Petitioner did not establish that 
Film Quest awards were nationally or internationally recognized from the time.__ ________ _. 
The After Hours Film Society presented the director of .__ ___________ _.with an Award 
of Excellence at thec=JSay It In Eight Student Film Festival. Festival materials credit the Petitioner 
among three "Secondary Filmmakers," but the award itself only names the director. The Petitioner did 
not establish that the award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner was also one of several individuals credited in the "Art Department" of higher-profile 
feature films such asl I and~--------~ but in lower-ranking roles. The Petitioner 
did not show that she received any awards related to her work on these films. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits copies of several articles about her. Not all of these articles meet the requirements 
of the criterion, but some do. For example, the Petitioner was the subject of an article in The Hindu, 
which she shows to be among India's highest-circulation daily newspapers. Therefore, we disagree with 
the Director's finding that the Petitioner does not satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner claims to be "widely recognized as one of the preeminent production designers and art 
directors in the entertainment industry," whose "record of major critically acclaimed successes is 
unparalleled." The Petitioner submits letters from several producers and production designers, most of 
whom have employed or supervised the Petitioner in some capacity. These individuals attest to the 
Petitioner's talent, list her credits, and claim that she is well known and in demand throughout the industry, 
but they do not explain the major significance of specific contributions that the Petitioner has made. 
For example, a production designer who has worked with the Petitioner on three feature films states that 
the Petitioner "exceeded the ordinary parameters of the art department" as an art department assistant on 
I I and was "integral in assembling" "one of the most iconic sets" as an assistant art director on 
4 
.__ ______ ____, The letter does not explain how the Petitioner's contribution to this film set is of 
major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not established that she has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion. We disagree. 
Much of the record concerns showings of films at festivals, which differ from commercial screenings in 
that the focus is on the artistic merit of the films and, in some instances, specific elements of those films. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner worked "on films that were shown at festivals," but stated 
that these showings did "not demonstrate that [the Petitioner's] actual work was recognized." 
As noted above, however, I lwas nominated for "Best Production Design / Art Direction" at the 
c=]FilmQuest Festival, and the Petitioner was the production designer for that film. The film did not 
win the award, but the very existence of the category shows that the festival's jurors were paying special 
attention to production design and art direction. The Petitioner's "actual work was recognized" by I !nomination in a category directly related to the Petitioner's role on the project. 
We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
If the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, 
the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner states: 
[P]roduction designers and art directors in the film industry typically work on 
productions ... and are not in-house staff working for organizations. As such, this 
criterion would not normally apply to creative artists such as art directors, production 
designers, actors, or directors. Respectfully, consideration of [the Petitioner's] lead 
and critical roles for productions with distinguished reputations would seem to be the 
appropriate comparable criterion for the Service to consider. 
We need not consider the merits of this argument unless the Petitioner establishes that she has in fact 
performed in a leading or critical role for productions with a distinguished reputation. The record does 
not show that she has done so. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was "an Art Director forl land I [" Whatever the 
reputation of the firstl I the sequels are still in production. The reputations of individual participants 
may contribute to expectations about the film, but expectations are not the same as a reputation. We 
5 
cannot find that a film has a distinguished reputation while it is still in production. The Petitioner's hiring 
for a high-profile project is a factor that could have been considered in a final merits determination, if the 
proceeding had reached that stage. 
With regard to films that had already been completed and released by the petition's filing date in 
November 2018, the Petitioner's positions of greatest responsibility were on short student films. In terms 
of major motion pictures, she was credited in lower-ranking roles such as "art department assistant" and 
"property master," with one "art director" credit for I I The submitted credits for 
that film, however, list the Petitioner as one of ten art directors; the Petitioner answered to one of four 
supervising art directors. The presence of nine other art directors, including several who outranked her, 
would appear to significantly limit the scope of the Petitioner's responsibility on the project. Also, the 
Petitioner did not submit objective (non-promotional) evidence that.__ _______ ___. enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. (A big-budget feature from a major studio is not intrinsically distinguished. The 
record does not establish the overall critical reception of the film;2 show that the film earned enough to 
cover production and marketing expenses; or otherwise demonstrate that the film has a distinguished 
reputation.) 
Several of the submitted letters indicate that the Petitioner deserves substantial credit for the success of 
films on which she has worked. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its 
discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional organizations, or other 
sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding a foreign national's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts supporting the 
petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. 
USCIS may even give less weight to an opinion that is not corroborated or is in any way questionable. 
Id. In this case, key assertions on the letters appear to be exaggerated or unwarranted. For example, a 
production designer in the industry asserted: "Due to [the Petitioner's] international renown in the 
indus she has served as production designer and art director on ... I I, J II I 
and I l" All of the named titles are student films, made by the Petitioner's 
fellow students at the'---------------~ This information tends to cast doubt on the 
assertion that her involvement in the projects was the result of "international renown in the industry." 
Without documentary support, such assertions carry little weight. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
Pay receipts for her work on the I !franchise show that the Petitioner earns $3867.10 per week on 
that project. The Petitioner states that she "commands a salary of $3,867.10 per week, or $96.67 per hour 
(annualized to $201,073.60)," and that "the median hourly wage for Art Directors is $44.97 (annualized 
2 Reviews in the record. chosen by the Petitioner, do not necessarily constitute a representative sampling. Websites such 
as IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes compile critical scores, but the Petitioner has not submitted that information. 
G 
to $92,497.60) as reported by the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics." The same 
source states that the 90th percentile hourly wage is $81.84. 
The data provided, however, do not provide a suitable comparison. The cited figures are for art directors 
in a variety of industries. The hourly mean wage for workers in the "Motion Picture and Video Industries" 
is $58.74, which is 18% higher than the $49.76 general mean across all industries. The submitted statistics 
do not break down median or percentile figures by industry, which limits their utility. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's stated calculation of $96.67 per hour assumes a 40-hour work week, but the 
record does not warrant that assumption. Thel I pay receipts show only a weekly figure, not an 
hourly wage. The only submitted document that shows the number of hours worked in a week is an 
earlier receipt for the Petitioner's work as an assistant art director forc=J Productions. That receipt 
indicates that she worked 60 hours during a five-day work week. If these hours are typical, then the 
Petitioner's hourly wage on the I I sequels would be $64.45, not $96.67. 
Also, the Petitioner repeatedly claims six-figure annual earnings, but she does not document her total 
earnings for any given year. Instead, she derives the sum by extrapolating her weekly pay. A small 
number of weekly pay receipts, in a field that employs the Petitioner on a project-by-project basis, does 
not demonstrate or imply that she consistently earned similar amounts every week leading up to the time 
of filing. (The Petitioner later submitted bank documents showing weekly deposits beginning in October 
2018, shortly before the filing date, but the Petitioner has not documented her total earnings for any given 
year.) 
The fragmentary evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner earns significantly 
high remuneration compared to other art directors in the motion picture industry. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to a request for evidence, 
the Petitioner asserted that she satisfies this criterion because she "played a critical role on projects that 
have been both commercially and critically successful," although this statement deviates significantly 
from the actual regulatory criterion. Likewise, fulfilling the criterion is not simply a matter of credited 
involvement in a commercially successful film. 
A production designer who worked supervised the Petitioner's work on several feature films stated: "I 
am confident that the success of these productions was contingent on the extraordinary artistry exhibited 
by" the Petitioner. The Petitioner was not the lead production designer or art director on any of the 
projects named in the letter, and the record contains no objective evidence to support the claim that the 
Petitioner was significantly responsible for the commercial performance of those films. 
We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not show that her work was largely responsible 
for the commercial success of her projects. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). By the same 
reasoning, involvement in major motion pictures is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. The 
Petitioner followed her involvement in well-regarded student films with lower-ranking crew positions 
on feature films. The Petitioner has since begun taking on positions of increasing responsibility, but 
the record does not support the contention that she has already achieved national or international 
acclaim at the top of the field of cinematic art direction. In the related but separate realm of production 
design, the Petitioner has no documented credits as a production designer subsequent to her student 
work. We find the record insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8469940 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a wireless engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a doctorate in electrical engineering at the University! I in 2016, and 
is now chief technology officer ofl I a startup company inl.....-'-'--~I W-a-sh-1-_n_g__.ton, that he co-
founded. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had authored scholarly articles and participated as a judge of the 
work of others, but had not shown that he made original contributions of major significance. Upon 
review, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied all three claimed criteria. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) requires evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, 
artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. To satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner relies on letters, citations to his published work, and other evidence. 
2 
The Petitioner's former Ph.D. advisor at the University! lwho is also a co-founder of0 I I states that the Petitioner's "development of a working phone and camera that do not require 
batteries is ... an exceptional breakthrough. The phone is powered entirely by using I lsignals 
and tiny solar panels . . . . [The Petitioner's] research represents an enormous step forward in making 
smart devices more efficient and useful." The battery-free devices derive their power from solar cells and 
.__ ______________ ...., from devices such as televisions and cellular phones. 
Heavy citation of scholarly articles can serve as one measure of the significance of a researcher's 
contributions. 1 A Google Scholar printout shows triple-digit citations for five of the Petitioner's 
published articles at the time of filing. One of his articles about.__ _____ ____.had been cited nearly 
500 times since its publication about five and a half years earlier, placing it within the top 0.01 % of 
engineering articles published in 2013, or the top 0.1 % of computer science articles from that year. 2 
Other articles also ranked highly in terms of citations. In the period immediately following publication, 
these percentile figures often say little; a very low number of citations can rate highly during that initial 
period. But as years go by, the gulf widens between the most-cited articles and those with lower levels 
of impact. The Petitioner's early articles have remained near the top of the citation rankings, indicating 
sustained significance rather than a short-lived burst of attention immediately after publication. 
Subsequent submissions show that the citation figures for the Petitioner's most-cited articles continue to 
grow. 
Copies of some of the citing articles emphasize the originality of the Petitioner's contributions, rather 
than representing an early adoption of methods or theories originating elsewhere. These articles cite a 
variety of earlier sources, as is typical of scholarly articles, but a number of them specify that the 
Petitioner's 2013 article "introduced".__ _______ ~ a low-power communications medium. The 
record further establishes that other researchers acknowledge the Petitioner's significant influence on their 
own later efforts. 
Beyond citations in scholarly journals, the mainstream press has taken notice of the Petitioner's work, 
with articles appearing in publications such as Fortune, Forbes, and the Telegraph, as well as the Reuters 
news service. Some of these articles identify the Petitioner by name. These articles do not specify the 
nature of the Petitioner's role in the research described, but other materials in the record serve that 
purpose. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
2 At different times, the Petitioner has placed his articles within both of those areas; the record does not establish how Claiivate 
Analytics (which compiled the percentile charts) classifies the Petitioner's specific field of research or the journals in which the 
Petitioner's articles appeared. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner has satisfied three of the criteria, which necessitates a final merits determination. In the 
final merits determination, the crucial issue is not the significance or usefulness of the Petitioner's past 
work, but rather the extent of the acclaim he has earned in the field. 
The Petitioner has peer-reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication in various journals, and for 
presentation at conferences. The Petitioner contends that these journals "enlist the services of only the 
most accomplished researchers," but the Petitioner does not submit evidence to this effect from the 
publishers of the journals in question. 
The Petitioner notes that his "research has been cited by researchers from ... prestigious and widespread 
institutes. . . . These widespread citations are proof of [the Petitioner's] sustained international acclaim." 
Science is inherently an international endeavor, and the Petitioner has not established that only acclaimed 
researchers tend to be cited outside of their home countries, or that researchers at prestigious institutions 
typically cite only top-ranked authors. 
Above, we have given due consideration to the volume of citations that the Petitioner's work has amassed. 
The identities and geographic distribution of the citing authors are not self-evident indicia of sustained 
acclaim. 
The record shows that the Petitioner's work has drawn interest from a variety of observers, ranging from 
fellow researchers who seek technical information about the Petitioner's experiments to a conservation 
group that inquired about using the technology to track endangered rhinoceros. The nature of the potential 
practical applications of the Petitioner's work, however, is not tantamount to sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
Furthermore, the technology at the center of the Petitioner's work appears to be at a very preliminary and 
tentative stage. Documents in the record show thatl I prepared a report for NASA, 
concerning possible avionics applications for the company's technology, but those materials do not show 
that NASA actually adopted the technology. 
3 See also USC1S Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
Likewise, contracts in the record between ~ and various clients refer to prototypes and feasibility 
studies. Most of the contracted delivery dates occurred before the petition's filing date in January 2019, 
but the record does not establish the extent to which these projects have progressed beyond the prototype 
stage. 
The Petitioner has established his involvement in innovative and important research, but the 
recognition arising from that work does not appear to have risen to the level of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown the required sustained national or international acclaim consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8396620 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, which acquires existing firearms manufacturing companies, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as its chief controller officer since December 2017. 
Previously, the Beneficiary held high-ranking financial officer positions with several companies, 
mostly in Brazil. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary meets six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
2 
The Petitioner also claimed to have submitted comparable evidence in the form of a letter from an 
attorney who worked with the Beneficiary on litigation involving the Petitioner. The Director declined 
to consider this evidence, noting that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows consideration of comparable 
evidence only when the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 203.4(h)(3) "do not readily apply to the 
beneficiary's occupation." The Petitioner does not reassert this claim on appeal, and therefore we 
consider the issue to be abandoned. 1 
The Director found that the Petitioner showed that the Beneficiary met the three evidentiary criteria 
numbered (iv), (vi), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets all six 
claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has established that the 
Beneficiary meets only two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). 
Because the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfies three criteria, the denial notice included 
a final merits determination. We disagree that the record warrants a final merits determination, but 
will address key issues further below, after addressing the individual criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The scientific director of the National Association of Business Administration Graduate Courses and 
Research (ANP AD) stated that the Petitioner "has been an associate with ANP AD ... since August 
2004." ANPAD's translated bylaws state: 
Professors, researchers and students of Administration courses and related fields, as well 
as other[] professionals with an interest in the activities of the Association, in accordance 
with the approved requirements by a Members' Meeting, may become ANP AD' s 
associated members divided by academic area. 
If associate membership is available even to students, as the above passage indicates, then associate 
membership does not require outstanding achievements. 
The Petitioner also submits information about the ANP AD Test, which is used as an admissions test for 
"graduate courses in Administration and Accounting Sciences." The link between ANP AD associate 
membership and the ANP AD Test is not explained, and in any case, qualifying for admission to graduate 
school is not an outstanding achievement. 
The Petitioner has not shown that ANP AD associate membership meets the regulatory requirements. 
1 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att); Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. l998);seealsoHristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 
Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Beneficiary served as an assesse on an "l Jndergraduate Paper Defense Committee," evaluating 
papers submitted by four students at I University. The Director found that this 
activity suffices to constitute judging the work of others, and discussed the issue further in the context of 
the final merits determination. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record contains copies of several qualifying articles by the Beneficiary. The Director further 
discussed these articles in the final merits determination. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits copies of two scholarly conference papers, each of which cited an article by the 
Beneficiary among several bibliographical references. The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's 
"extraordinary business expertise has ... been highlighted and praised directly ... [ and] indirectly in the 
form of citation references in professional publications." Citations and brief references in scholarly 
articles do not necessarily mean that the articles are about the Beneficiary, relating to his work in the field. 
The Petitioner did not submit English translations of the Portuguese-language articles, as required by 
8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b )(3) and 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner only submitted English translations of the 
one-paragraph abstracts for each article, and neither of those abstracts mentions the Petitioner. Without 
translations to establish the context of the citations, the record does not support the Petitioner's claim that 
the articles are about the Beneficiary, rather than simply naming him as one of many sources of 
information. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of this 
criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner's chief executive officer (CEO) states that the Beneficiary has authority over the 
company's financial functions including cash flow, budget, and taxes. The Director determined that the 
Beneficiary's role is critical for the petitioning entity. We agree with this determination, but the Petitioner 
has not shown that the company has a distinguished reputation. 
4 
The CEO acknowledges that the Petitioner "is a new company ... built from acquisitions" of companies 
that had already earned their own reputations. Some of those acquired companies may have distinguished 
reputations of their own, but the Petitioner has not established the extent to which the Beneficiary has 
authority over those subsidiaries, as opposed to the holding company that owns them. The CEO asserts 
that the Beneficiary is "the only Officer in the company after me," suggesting a minimal management 
structure rather than one that exercises direct and detailed authority over five different manufacturing 
companies. The Petitioner does not establish that the Beneficiary performs in a leading or critical role for 
any of the Petitioner's subsidiaries, and therefore the reputations of those companies are immaterial. 
"Reputation" is defined as "overall quality or character as seen or judged by people in general"; 
"recognition by other people of some characteristic or ability"; or "a place in public esteem or regard."2 
These definitions show that a reputation, distinguished or otherwise, derives from outside perception, not 
from self-assessment. Therefore, the Petitioner cannot establish the reputation of an organization based 
only on statements from officials of that organization. Information about an organization's reputation 
must come, instead, from reliable and identified sources outside that organization. (If the sources are not 
identified, then we cannot account for possible bias or error in the descriptions offered.) 
The age and apparent size of the company do not, by themselves, prove or disprove that the Petitioner has 
a distinguished reputation, but the burden of proof is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility; there is no 
presumption of distinction. While counsel for the Petitioner has asserted that the Beneficiary's various 
employers have distinguished reputations, the assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter o_f Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 
506 (BIA 1980)). 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary performed in leading or critical roles for his earlier employers 
as well, but, as above, this claim relies entirely on letters from officials of those companies, with no 
corroboration that the employers have distinguished reputations. The Beneficiary generally worked for 
Brazilian subsidiaries of companies headquartered elsewhere. When counsel for the Petitioner discusses 
the reputations of the companies, that discussion focuses on the companies' headquarters outside Brazil, 
or on the multinational organizations as a whole, whereas the Beneficiary's roles appear to have been 
largely confined to subdivisions of those organizations. The Petitioner must establish that the 
organizations have distinguished reputations at the level of the Beneficiary's roles, rather than relying on 
the reputations of the employers' parent companies, holding companies, affiliates, etc. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
2 https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reputation (last visited May 4, 2020). 
5 
The Petitioner documents the Beneficiary's pre-2018 earnings in Brazil, but does not provide any basis 
for comparison to show that the figures are high in relation to others in the field. 
In terms of the Beneficiary's compensation in the United States, the Petitioner paid the Beneficiary 
$162,360.61 in 2018. A March 2019 job offer letter from the Petitioner to the Beneficiary specifies a 
base salary of $145,000 per year plus benefits. 
The Petitioner cites three figures on appeal, all deriving from previously submitted documentation: 
National Average Salary for Chief Compliance Officer Beneficiary's salary 
Top Executives, according [to] average inl I Arizona, 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics according [to] Linkedin 
US$104,980 per year US$107,000 per year US$162,360.61 
The Petitioner asserts that the cited figures "clearly show[] that Beneficiary's annual salary of 
$162,360.61 is high compared to others who are performing similar work, have similar levels of 
experience, and who work in the same geographical location." These figures, however, are problematic 
for several reasons. 
The "Top Executives" figure comes from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Outlook 
Handbook, reporting that the 2018 median pay for "Top Executives" was $104,980 per year. The 
Petitioner does not adequately explain why this figure applies to the Beneficiary's position. The figure 
accounts for executives in "both small and large businesses," including "companies in which they are the 
only employee." The Petitioner does not explain how this very broad category limits comparison to 
"others who are performing similar work, have similar levels of experience, and who work in the same 
geographical location" as the Beneficiary. 
In contrast, the Handbook also has a listing for "Financial Managers," whose duties appear to more closely 
match those of the Beneficiary. The Handbook reports: "In May 2019, the median annual wage[] for 
financial managers in ... [m]anagement of companies and enterprises [was $]145,280,"3 an amount 
slightly higher than the Beneficiary's 2019 base salary. 
The Petitioner states that the sum of $162,360.61 represents the "Beneficiary's salary" for 2018, but his 
base salary was $145,000 as of March 2019. Either the Petitioner reduced the Beneficiary's salary after 
2018, or the higher sum includes additional non-salaried pay such as bonuses and benefits. This is a 
highly relevant distinction because, otherwise, comparing the Beneficiary's total compensation with the 
base salary paid to others would produce a result skewed in the Beneficiary's favor. 
The Petitioner derived the Linkedln data from printouts of private survey data from various websites. 
The data, however, are inconsistent, relying on non-random surveys with small sample sizes. Linkedln 
relied on "15 responses" to report that chief compliance officers in the I larea earn an average 
annual base salary of $101,000, plus an average $6000 in benefits. The same source reported that, in 
other U.S. locations, the median annual base salary is as high as $185,000. 
3 https://www.bls.gov/ooh/management/financial-managers.htm#tab-5 (last visited May 5, 2020). 
G 
The other submitted sources conflict with one another. PayScale indicates that the national average salary 
for a chief compliance officer is $120,000. Dice indicates that a corporate controller with 15 years of 
experience could expect to earn a salary between $81,500 and $113,000 in the United States, with a 
somewhat reduced range of $77,500 to $107,000 per year inl I Arizona. Glassdoor reports that 
the national average base pay for a corporate controller is $130,226 per year. 
Indeed indicates that the average salary for a corporate controller is $91,245 per year in Arizona, and 
$152,806 per year i~ I If the latter figure represents base pay before benefits (as the word "salary" 
implies), then the Beneficiary's base salary is below average for the area. An accompanying distribution 
chart shows that local salaries range between $85,000 and $276,000 per year. But these figures derive 
from only 16 samples. 
The incomplete and conflicting data that the Petitioner has submitted are not sufiicient to show that the 
Beneficiary's compensation meets the requirements of the regulation. 
Also on appeal, the Petitioner cites an unpublished appellate decision from 2017. That decision has no 
precedential authority. Furthermore, the beneficiary's salary was not an issue in the cited case, and the 
Petitioner does not explain how it is otherwise relevant to the issue of compensation. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, the 
Director then evaluated whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
that the Beneficiary enjoys sustained national or international acclaim; that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor; and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. A final merits determination involves analysis of a 
beneficiary's accomplishments and weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes 
are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.4 The 
Director determined that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
While we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has met three of the initial criteria, 
below we will briefly consider key findings from the Director's final merits determination. 
As noted above, the Petitioner documented two citations to the Beneficiary's scholarly articles. The 
Director concluded that the Beneficiary's scholarly articles have had minimal impact on his field. 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, that the "Beneficiary's Authorship of Scholarly Articles meets all the 
requirements under the plain language in the regulations." The Director agreed, and found the 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
7 
Beneficiary's scholarly articles deficient only in the context of the final merits determination. In that 
determination, unlike the initial review of the ten criteria, sustained acclaim is directly at issue. The statute 
directly requires "sustained national and international acclaim," and the regulations require the 
Beneficiary to have "risen to the very top of the field." These requirements do not disappear or become 
irrelevant because 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) does not repeat the phrases. A beneficiary's published 
scholarly articles may result in acclaim, but the act of publication is not, itself: an infallible and irrebuttable 
hallmark of that acclaim. 
In this instance, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's articles have had any impact or 
influence on his field apart from citations in two conference presentations. Because the Petitioner submits 
no translations to give context to those citations, we cannot determine why the other authors cited the 
Petitioner's work. And the Petitioner has not established that only influential writers accrue two citations 
to their work. 
While the Director acknowledged that the Beneficiary judged four undergraduate papers, the Director 
found that the Petitioner did not show that this activity reflects sustained acclaim. A former professor at 
University states that "[t]he judges were chosen based on their knowledge of the .__ _______ ___, 
subject, their academic qualifications and their professional background," but these traits are not 
hallmarks of acclaim or extraordinary ability. The Petitioner has not shown that the evaluation of 
undergraduate student papers is a privilege reserved for those at the top of the field. 
The record shows that the Beneficiary has had a successful and consequential career, to the benefit of 
his various employers. But the record does not show that he has met the very high threshold of 
sustained national or international acclaim as one among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field of endeavor. 
C. Other Issues 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the prior approval of a nonimmigrant petition for 0-1 status relied on 
"nearly identical" criteria, and that, therefore, the Director cannot justifiably deny the immigrant petition 
based on essentially the same facts. 
The earlier, approved 0-1 petition is not before us for review. An adjudicator's fact-finding authority 
should not be constrained by any prior petition approval, but instead, should be based on the merits of 
each case. 5 In this instance, the Director articulated the grounds for denial of the petition. The Director 
was not required to compare the immigrant petition to the earlier nonimmigrant petition and explain 
why the two petitions had different outcomes. Neither the Director nor the Administrative Appeals 
Office is required to presume that the earlier 0-1 petition was correctly approved. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director denied due process to the Petitioner, because the denial 
notice referred to deficiencies that the Director had not previously specified in a request for evidence. 
5 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0151, Rescission of Guidance Regarding Deference to Prior Determinations of 
Eligibility in the Adjudication of Petitions for Extension of Nonimmigrant Status 3 (October 23. 2017), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
8 
A request for evidence is, by nature, the result of a preliminary review of the record rather than an 
exhaustive evaluation thereof, and the issuance of such a notice is discretionary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(8). Because the Director was not required to issue a request for evidence at all, the Director 
did not violate the Petitioner's right to due process by failing to incorporate a comprehensive list of 
every deficiency in the record. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8335500 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business development and marketing manager, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner defines "her field" as "Over-the-Top (OTT) South Asian Television Marketing." (OTT 
refers here to media distributed over the Internet rather than traditional broadcast or cable networks; well­
known examples include Netflix and Hulu.) This description is extremely narrow; not only does it 
exclude the vast majority of those employed in marketing, it also excludes everyone employed in 
marketing OTT services that are not specifically geared toward South Asian programming. The Petitioner 
has not established that OTT Asian television marketing differs, in any substantive way, from marketing 
of other products or services. 
The Petitioner seeks to continue working as the marketing manager (Americas) for~-----~ a 
provider of OTT streaming South Asian video programming, which has emfloyed her since 2013.1 From 
2009 to 2013, the Petitioner worked as a project manager for._l ____ _,_ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had satisfied only one criterion, relating to performing in a leading 
or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
1 The Petitioner is the beneficiary of an earlier immigrant petition (in a different classification) filed by._l --~I which was 
approved in June 2016, with a primity date of September 4, 2015. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she has met the requirements of the criteria numbered (i), (iii), 
and (v). The Petitioner does not reassert her claim to have satisfied criterion (vi), relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field. Therefore, we consider that claim to be abandoned. 2 
Because the Director found that the Petitioner satisfies one criterion, and the Petitioner has abandoned 
another, she must satisfy at least two of the remaining three criteria in order to qualify for the classification 
sought. As explained below, we find that she has not satisfied any other criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner received plaques and certificates from several local, state, and regional ethnic associations 
in the Mid-Atlantic area of the United States. None of these materials appear to be prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of business development and marketing. Rather, they reflect the Petitioner's 
participation in various local or regional ethnic events such as parades and conventions. A certificate 
from the Ban~ladesh Society of New York expressed appreciation for the Petitioner's "participation in 
the 20171 I." At least some of these accolades arose from the Petitioner's work 
withl I but the P;titioner has not shown that she received them to recognize excellence in her field 
of endeavor. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that awards from local, state, and regional 
associations are nationally or internationally recognized. 
In a request for evidence, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted evidence did not~ 
to satisfy the requirements of the criterion. The Petitioner's response includes a letter, attributed to L__J I l Director ofi lwhich reads, in part: 
Congratulations on receiving thel O I award. As you know, this is an award that 
is provided by us to members of [the] South Asian community who have done outstanding 
work in their field whom we believe contributed the most to [the] South Asian community 
in North America . 
. . . Your work within thel I community for [the] last decade has been impressive. 
Your grassroot[ s] work brought awareness of legal and affordable ways the community 
can enjoy Bangladeshi Television .... So, it gives me great pleasure to notify you that 
you have been selected to receive the I I award. 
This newly submitted letter is questionable for several reasons. The letter is dated July 22, 2019, after the 
petition's filing date. Prior to the filing the petition, the Petitioner received two much shorter award letters 
in 2016 and 2018. Neither of those letters mentioned television. The 2016 letter mentioned the 
2 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham. 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 
Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). We briefly note that 
the submitted writings are not scholarly articles in the field of business development and marketing. Rather. the Petitioner 
wrote several newspaper articles during a student internship in 2003, and she co-wrote a political commentaiy in 2004. 
3 
Petitioner's "contribution to the Bangladeshi community in North America," without elaboration. The 
2018 letter added that the Beneficiary "has been a patron of the I !Organization since 2016." 
The 2016 and 2018 letters both refer to~I ___ __.l's "Street Fair." Consistent with this, the inscription 
on the plaque from 2016 reads: 
J STREET FESTN AL 2016 
~---,===::-:_:.,...lvirginia,I 12016 
This Award is presented to our Patron 
[The Petitioner] 
I I 
The newest letter is not merely more detailed than the earlier letters. Rather, it amounts to a very 
substantial revision of the reason the Petitioner received the award. This revision, apparently written 
specifically to address the Director's request for evidence, raises serious questions regarding the truth 
of the facts asserted. 3 Of particular concern, all three letters are attributed to I I but 
the signature on the 2019 letter is entirely different from the signatures on the two earlier letters. 
Furthermore, the new evidence does not establish that the I I award is nationally or 
internationally recognized. The Petitioner submits several printouts from I I's website 
Facebook page, but none of these printouts mention the Petitioner or the award. 
The Petitioner contends that 'I 1-is operating nationwide," but the submitted printouts 
indicate thatl I is a local organization that exists to "promote and support the ethnic 
communities living here in ... Washington, DC, Maryland, and Virginia." Thel I events 
described in the record all took place in the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, DC. 
The Petitioner shows that the North American Telugu Association (NATA) and the American Telugu 
Association (ATA) are national organizations, but the record does not show that either of those 
associations gave any award to the Petitioner. A certificate from NATA reads, in part: 
NATA proudly honours for [sic] your esteemed presence 
at the NATA Convention! 12018. 
Your valuable contribution made the convention a grand success. 
The record does not contain any clarification from NA TA to show how many people received those 
certificates, who those recipients were, or why they received them. Because the wording is so vague, it 
may simply acknowledge attendance at the convention. The certificate does not give any indication that 
NATA awarded it to the Petitioner for excellence in her field. Because the recipient's name is not on the 
certificate, it does not show whether NATA gave the certificate to the Petitioner, tol I or to some 
other recipient. NATA's bylaws refer to an Awards Committee, but the record contains nothing from 
that committee to say that NA TA gave the Petitioner any award, and if so, the reason for that award. 
3 Cf Matter of Bueno, 21 l&NDec. 1029, 1033 (BIA 1997); cf also Matter of Ma, 20 l&NDec. 394 (BIA 1991) (discussing 
the evidentiary weight accorded to delayed birth ce1tificates in immigrant visa proceedings). 
4 
With respect to A TA, the Petitioner submits a screen capture from a Y ouTube video, showing four 
unidentified men and a woman onstage. The title of the video is"~-------~" Visiting the 
web address of this video, we see that the video was posted on the Petitioner's own Y ouTube channel. 
The video shows the woman receiving a floral bouquet and what appears to be a cape or shawl. This 
person may be the Petitioner, but the image ( captured by filming a television screen) is of poor quality. 
The sound on the video is also indistinct, and someone appears to be talking over it. 
The very brief video ( 40 seconds long) does not explain the significance of the events shown. The 
Petitioner asserts that she "was recognized ... for her contribution and promotion to the Telugu 
community and culture through South Asian television access in North America," but this is not evident 
from the video. Even if the woman in the video is the Petitioner, the video does not show that she received 
a prize or award for excellence in her field. 
The evidence submitted does not show that the Petitioner received any nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. The Petitioner has received some recognition from local entities, but the 
record does not show that she received this recognition for excellence in her field. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
South Asia Mid Week published an interview with the Petitioner, discussing the effect of OTT streaming 
on television viewing, particularly with regard to expanding the availability of South Asian content. The 
article identifies the Petitioner as someone with expertise on the subject, but the article is not about her, 
relating to her work. 
The Petitioner states that she has been interviewed in various Canadian broadcast and print media, such 
as the Tamil-language television ch~ I and the Brampton Guardian, discussing! I 
programming and "the launch of Digital Network." The Petitioner has also participated in I l's involvement in Canada's annual India Day Parade, which received television coverage. The 
Petitioner has not shown that these interviews and activities were about her, relating to her work; the 
various media were not reporting on the Petitioner's skills and achievements in the field of marketing. 
Rather, the Petitioner made these appearances as part of her marketing duties to promote her employers' 
services and products. A transcript in the record, for example, shows that the Petitioner discussed pricing 
packages and channel availability. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that the media appearances were about her, relating to her work 
in the field (rather than about her employer and its services), we need not address the separate question 
of whether the broadcasters and newspapers constitute major media. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements of this criterion. We disagree. 
5 
The Petitioner claims to have performed in leading or critical roles for five different employers since 
2006. For each position, the Petitioner must show both that (1) her role was leading or critical, and (2) 
the employer has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner cites Exhibit 2 as evidence that she performed in leading or critical roles in the following 
capacities: 
• Associate Producer, ........ ___ Digital Entertainment 
• Production Assistant, 3 
• Online Advertising Assistant, New York 
Exhibit 2 is the Petitioner's own resume. As such, it constitutes a series of the Petitioner's own claims, 
rather than evidence to support those claims. Furthermore, "leading or critical" is not merely a synonym 
for ''useful." It cannot suffice for the Petitioner simply to describe her responsibilities and explain how 
her work was beneficial to her employers. 
The Petitioner emphasizes, and documents, her two most recent positions at I I and.._ __ ____. 
The Petitioner describes the latter company as "an online video technology company specializing in TV 
Everywhere platform." The documents submitted as evidence of these companies' reputations, however, 
are mostly internally-generated promotional materials such as press releases, marketing presentations, 
and the companies' websites. A company's reputation is how it is perceived from outside, not how it 
describes itself to potential clients, customers, and business partners. 
The exception is an online article from The Frisky, which lists I I among the "Best 30 Free Live 
TV Streaming Sites for Watching TV Online." The record provides no other information about The 
Frisky. Information in the printout raises questions about the article and its editorial oversight. For 
example, the title of the article refers to "30 Free Live TV Streaming Sites," but the article's web address 
refers to "25-free-live-tv-streaming-sites." Also, the list of "free" sites includes several paid sites, such 
as Netflix, Hulu, and DirecTV Now. The "About the Author" section at the end of the article is blank 
except for a name and a photograph. Therefore, the reliability of this article is questionable. 
Even then, the article refers specifically to I I in Asia, calling that provider "very popular on the 
subcontinent." The article does not mention I I or the company's services or viewership in 
the United States. Likewise, the submitted statistics about I I concern the larger, international 
organization, whereas the letters discussin the Petitioner's role deal with the related, but legally distinct, I I Global information about does not reflect or convey a distinguished reputation 
on I I, and the Petitioner's role with does not necessarily translate to leading 
or critical role with the larger, international !organization. 
The Petitioner has not submitted objective, documentary evidence that I I and 1 I have 
distinguished reputations, and therefore we need not consider the separate question of whether her roles 
for those company were leading or critical. 
G 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion that the Petitioner 
claims at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve 
the remaining issue. 4 In doing so, we neither affirm nor withdraw the Director's finding that the 
Petitioner played a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a distinguished 
reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8396610 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oncologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also found that the Petitioner had not established that she would be able to continue working 
in the field in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a~ physician of the Department of Medical Oncology at~I ---~I Hospital, a 
teaching hospital ofl__JUniversity inl O I China. 
A. Translations 
Apart from the specific requirements relating to various evidentiary criteria discussed below, the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) states: "Any document containing foreign language submitted to 
USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified as 
complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English." The Petitioner's initial submission included one certification, attesting 
collectively to every translated document in the record. The certification, however, did not list or describe 
the translated documents. The Director found that such a blanket certification is not satisfactory; it does 
not establish a connection between the certification and any particular translation in the record. 
The Director raised this issue in a request for evidence, but the Petitioner's response included new, 
specific certifications for only a few documents in the record. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
2 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets two other criteria, numbered (iii) and (ix). The Petitioner does 
not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria numbered (ii), (v), and (viii), and therefore 
we consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
met only two criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). Below, we explain our findings regarding the two 
criteria discussed on appeal. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner states that she "and her work in Oncology have been published in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media outlets." This claim deviates from the wording of the regulation, 
which requires the published material to be about the Petitioner. Some of the submitted articles are by 
the Petitioner, rather than about her. For example, the Petitioner wrote an article in the China Medical 
Tribune, describing studies of various cancer drugs. A number of these articles are essentially scholarly 
articles, which fall under a different criterion (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)) that the Petitioner has satisfied. 
Several other articles, many lacking the required author credit, reported on medical conferences, 
summarizing presentations made by the Petitioner and other researchers. These articles are not about the 
Petitioner; they are about the findings that resulted from research that the Petitioner ( and others) 
conducted. 
An article in the China Medical Tribune, again with no byline author credit, reported on the establishment 
ofthtj I sarcoma Clinical Center. The article included interviews with the Petitioner and another 
official, who answered questions about the Center and the types of cancers to be treated there. As above, 
the Petitioner is a quoted source of information, but the article is not about her. 
An article from the Xinmin Evening News has an author credit, but, like the other articles, is not about the 
Petitioner. Instead, the article features an interview with the Petitioner, who discusses the prevention, 
diagnosis, and treatment of lymphoma. A brief biographical sketch at the end of the article lists the 
Petitioner's credentials, but this does not mean that the article constitutes published material about the 
Petitioner. 
1 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att); Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. l998);seealsoHristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 
Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an article published in February 2019, four months after the Petitioner 
filed the petition. This evidence cannot retroactively establish eligibility as of the filing date. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l), which requires every petitioner to meet all eligibility requirements as of the time of filing. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
A letter froml I Hospital lists the following remuneration paid to the Petitioner (some figures 
are identified as approximations): 
Base Salary 
Bonus and Remuneration 
Total Income 2015 
¥70,000 
530,000 
600,000 2016 
¥75,000 
625,000 
700,000 2017 
¥80,000 
720,000 
800,000 
Beyond her hospital salary, income certificates fro~ !Human Resources indicate that the 
Petitioner received income for "services externally dispatched by our company," such as "lecture fee, 
consultation fee, etc.," in the following amounts: 
2015 2016 2017 
¥822,040 ¥931,030 ¥1,026,000 
Tax documents identify 'Taxable income" originating from I I Hospital and several 
pharmaceutical companies: 
2015 2016 2017 I Hospital ¥227,704.68 ¥405,160.13 ¥566,349.69 
Other sources 41,087.17 91,962.13 44,577.16 
Total Income 268,791.85 437,793.17 610,926.85 
The Director found the above figures to be inconsistent, and therefore lacking in credibility. On appeal, 
the Petitioner disputes this conclusion, stating that the Director "failed to take China's tax law system and 
medical income system into account." The Petitioner also asserts that the income from I O J 
Human Resources is separate from the income froml I Hospital. The Petitioner, however, does 
not adequately explain why the 'Taxable Income" specifically attributed tol I does not 
match the figures on the letter from that hospital. 
The Petitioner asserts that her "monthly wages and salaries from I O I Hospital in 2017 was 
approximately RMB 66,666," but, looking at the hospital payments on the 2017 tax documents, even if 
we add the ¥566,349.69 in "Taxable income" to the ¥130,094.64 listed as "Paid-in tax amount" (which 
should not be necessary, as "taxable income" is not the same as "after-tax income"), those two amounts 
still add up to only ¥696,444.33, nearly ¥100,000 less than the claimed figure of¥800,000 for the year. 
The Petitioner has not credibly reconciled the figures on the different documents. 
4 
Apart from the inconsistencies, the Petitioner has not provided a sufficient basis for comparison to show 
that her remuneration for services as a director physician is significantly high in relation to other director 
physicians. The Petitioner submits job announcements for three oncologist positions in China. The two 
highest-paying positions offer ¥15,000-20,000 per month, which annualizes to ¥180,000-240,000 per 
year. A job announcement for a director physician offers ¥150,000-200,000 per year. The Petitioner did 
not establish that the amounts in these four job announcements are representative of the Petitioner's 
occupation. Three of the announced positions are for oncologists without the added responsibilities of a 
director physician, and the one director physician position is for an ophthalmologist rather than an 
oncologist. 
Furthermore, the amounts in the job announcements are considerably lower than the Petitioner's total 
annual income, but much higher than her base salary, which accounts for less than 11 % of her stated 
hospital earnings (according to the letter from the hospital). The Petitioner submits excerpts from a 2013 
survey, indicating that "monthly bonuses paid to nurses and physicians on average make up nearly 45% 
of their reported incomes," with that figure ranging from 0% to 80%. The report did not discuss the bonus 
structure for director physicians. The report indicated that "[b ]onuses accounted for at least half of 21 
managers' incomes," but there is no accompanying breakdown of data. 
The Petitioner also submits a survey report from the Chinese Medical Doctor Association, indicating that 
physicians at "the senior level" reported an average annual income of¥107,813.18. The document does 
not clarify whether this amount reflects total income or base salary, and does not differentiate between 
director physicians and doctors with entirely clinical responsibilities. 
Furthermore, the record shows that the Petitioner derives income from multiple sources. Comparing this 
aggregate income with any single source ofremuneration would, therefore, tend to be lopsided rather than 
an even one-to-one comparison. 
The Petitioner provides salary data from the U.S. Department of Labor, but these figures concern 
physicians in the United States, not director physicians in China, and therefore the statistics do not apply 
to the case at hand. 
For the above reasons, the evidence submitted does not consistently establish the amount the Petitioner 
earns, or suffice to establish how her total compensation compares with that of other director physician 
oncologists in China. 
C. Intended Employment in the United States 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act requires that the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of claimed extraordinary ability. The Director found that the Petitioner has not 
established her ability to practice medicine in the United States. 
5 
Because the Petitioner has not met the threshold criteria for eligibility as an alien of extraordinary 
ability, discussion of this separate issue cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve this issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
appears to have authority over one department of a major hospital in Shanghai, but the record does not 
include the extensive documentation of sustained national or international acclaim required by section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8421489 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had won a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least 
three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. We dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal from that 
decision. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. We 
may grant a motion that satisfies this requirement and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening, a petitioner 
must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly completed Form 
1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause for granting the 
motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, but neither the 
Director nor we found that he had done so. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
2 
The Petitioner abandoned criterion (vii) on appeal, but claimed to have met the remaining five criteria. 
In our appellate decision, we found that the Petitioner had satisfied only the first two criteria. On 
motion, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies the criteria numbered (iii) and (viii) and submits 
evidence intended to address those criteria. 
After reviewing the newly submitted evidence, we find that it does not warrant reopening the petition, 
as explained below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner previously submitted a transcript of a news story about him on Pan Armenian TV, an 
Armenian-language television station "available on all major SoCal [Southern California] Cable TV 
providers" and "covering entire USA, Southern Canada and Northern Mexico" through a satellite service. 
In our dismissal notice, we stated: "the record does not demonstrate who interviewed the Petitioner or 
the date when the interview was broadcast. In addition, the Petitioner did not provide documentary 
evidence of the viewership statistics for the specific television program on which the interview was 
broadcast." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a letter from the station's chief executive officer (CEO), confirming 
that the broadcast took placed onl I 2017, about two months before the petition's filing date. In 
terms of viewership, the CEO asserts that "[ s ]pecific statistics on how many people watched the 
interview ... are not yet reported," but he claims: "PAN ARMENIA has over one million viewers all 
over the world [of whom the] majority viewed [the Petitioner's] interview." He did not explain how 
he knew that most of the station's viewers watched the interview. The Petitioner does not provide 
average per-episode viewership figures for the weekly program on which the interview appeared. That 
average would not require figures for the specific episode on which the Petitioner appeared. 
Notwithstanding the reference to "viewers all over the world," a printout from Pan Armenian TV's 
own website indicates that most of those viewers (620,000) are on the West Coast of the United States. 
A map from the same website appears to indicate that viewership is heavily concentrated in the Los 
Angeles area. The Petitioner has not submitted viewership figures for other Los Angeles television 
stations to provide a basis for comparison. Furthermore, the record does not specify whether the "over 
one million viewers" figure refers to active viewers, or rather the potential viewership comprised of 
cable and satellite subscribers who have access to the channel, whether or not they actually watch it. 
The evidence does not establish that a minority-language television station, with a predominantly local 
viewership, constitutes major media. 
The Petitioner had prerouslyl submitted an article published in the'---------------' 
University's newspaper In our prior decision we found that "this article does not satisfy the 
3 
plain language of this criterion, as it is not about the Petitioner, but about the ~I --~I Martial Arts 
Club, and does not identify the author of the material." 
The Petitioner had also previously submitted a translated article which the Petitioner attributed to the 
newspaper Vardadzor. In our prior decision, we identified two deficiencies with this evidence. First, 
the translation did not identify the source of the article. Second, the submitted circulation information 
appeared to indicate modest, regional circulation, and did not show that the online edition constitutes 
"major media relative to other online news sources." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits more specific circulation data for the print editions of D and 
Vardadzor, which does not address the above findings. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not overcome our findings regarding published material. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims that he performed in a leading or critical role as a member of Armenia's national 
karate team in I I In our appellate decision, we found that the Petitioner had not submitted 
corroborating evidence to set him apart from other team members to show that his role, in particular, was 
leading or critical. We also found that "the record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
that the Armenian national karate team has a distinguished reputation in the field." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a new letter from I I of the Armenian Karate Federation, 
who is alsol pf the Armenian National Karate Team. This official asserts that the Petitioner's 
role in international comJetitiln "was leading and critical, especially during the World Championship 
that took place inOin " At that event, the Petitioner placed first in Kumite in his weight class, 
which, the official states, placed the team in the top three for the competition. He adds that the Petitioner 
"won a first place as a part of the Armenian National Team inl I California in May of1 I 
which was a very prestigious win for our Team." 
In our prior decision( we flund that the Petitioner did not establish the significance of the awards from 
the competitions in and C=1 and did not establish that the Armenian national team has a 
distinguished reputation. The new submission on motion does not include objective, documentary 
evidence to overcome those findings, or to show that the Petitioner's participation in the above-mentioned 
competitions significantly affected that reputation. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening the petition, and 
has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8468315 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a graduate student at the time of filing, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
When she filed the petition in June 2018, the Petitioner was a Jraduate research assistant studying in the I I Devices Laboratory at I University in I I Tennessee. In 
August 2018, the Petitioner received her doctorate and began working as a postdoctoral research associate 
au I National Laboratory in I , trennessee.1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the two criteria numbered (iv) and (vi) of the evidentiary 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other two claimed criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has met only 
two of the four claimed criteria. We explain our findings below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits copies of 19 online articles, the first of which is essentially a press release from 
I Is own website. The other 18 articles (none of them credited to individual authors) are all 
derived from thel I article, sometimes reworded or paraphrased, but in most cases copied word­
for-word, including the title of the article. The Petitioner contends that the websites that reproduced or 
1 The appointment is inherently temporary, for a maximum of three years. 
2 
adapted I I's press release constitute major media, but the record indicates that the sites are 
essentially aggregators of outside content. 
Entitled' 'thel I article describes how 
I I of black phosphorus produce small amounts of electricity from movements. These principles 
could eventually result in the devices being incorporated into clothing to power low-energy devices, but 
this is described as "[ o ]ne of the more futuristic applications of this technology," which is still at a 
preliminary, proof-of-concept stage. 
The common source article froml I is not about the Petitioner. It names the Petitioner as one of 
two students who "co-led the effort to make and test the devices," but apart from this identification, the 
Petitioner's name does not appear again except in the caption to a group photograph. The article also 
indicates that an associate professor atl I "directed the research," and quotes him at length. 
Another! !faculty member credits that associate professor with the "advances in materials and 
I t' that the article describes. 
The regulatory language requires the published material to be "about the alien," and also "relating to the 
alien's work in the field." These are two separate characteristics; neither implies or encompasses the 
other. A collective and anonymous reference to a research team may relate to the work of those 
researchers, but it is not about any specific member of that team. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
A U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy memorandum states: 
Although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient 
to establish that the work is of major significance. For example, peer-reviewed 
presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that 
have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the 
field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the alien's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the alien's 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 
USCIS officers should take into account the probative analysis that experts in the field 
may provide in opinion letters regarding the significance of the alien's contributions in 
order to assist in giving an assessment of the alien's original contributions of major 
3 
significance. That said, not all expert letters provide such analysis. Letters that 
specifically articulate how the alien's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 2 
The Petitioner describes her research in technical detail in a 15-page statement. She states, for example: 
"I successfully fabricated thd I composite foam 
for I ~ battery cathodes with high areal loading and high areal capacity by I • I 
infiltration method for the first time." 
The Petitioner has submitted several letters which describe her work in highly technical detail, but which 
do not clearly explain why the Petitioner's work is of major significance in the field. For example, a letter 
signed by the Petitioner's doctoral research advisor includes this passage: 
Our lab has pioneered the design of a battery technology-based._! _____ ___.I system 
for generating electricity from human motions. The Petitioner dedicated her effort to 
the innovative design and fabrication of the L_ _______ ,...,.........,""""'- ........ .!..><.l<..., 
.__ ______ _. systems. She is the first scientist to integrate .__ ____ _. black 
phosphorus as electrode for llsystem by using electrophoretic deposition. By 
incorporating two identical c=Jhfack phosphorus electrodes, the device exhibited 
power and energy output of 42 nW/cm2 and 0.792 µJ/cm2, and is capable [of]working at 
frequencies at low as 0.01 Hz. 
The writer asserts that the Petitioner's work is of value "to fulfill the goal of developing better energy 
storage devices," but does not fully explain why the Petitioner's contributions, in particular, are of major 
significance in achieving that goal. 
Also, the Petitioner was one member of a research team. Journal articles relating to the work described 
above have five credited authors. The Petitioner is a co-owner of two U.S. patents; she is one of six 
named inventors for each. The letter describes the projects themselves, but does not specify the 
contributions that the Petitioner (rather than her collaborators) made to those projects. 
Different researchers (with varying degrees of first-hand familiarity with the Petitioner's work) signed 
the letters in the record, but there are some indications that the letters are not all of independent origin. 
Some letters share similarities in formatting ( such as passages highlighted in bold type) and phrasing. For 
example, the letter quoted above also includes this passage: 
[The Petitioner] has also been invited and has served as an expert reviewer to judge 
the works of her peers for scholarly journals in the field. She was invited and peer­
reviewed manuscripts submitted to the peer-reviewed scientific journal Nanotechnology 
2 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
and Materials Research Express. These journals aim to publish papers at the forefront of I I materials science and technology and especially those of an interdisciplinary 
nature. To be publishable in these journals, papers must meet the highest scientific quality 
standards, contain significant and original new science, and should make substantial 
advances within a particular area ofl I science and technology. 
A separate letter, attributed to a professor at ~I --~I University, includes a mostly identical passage: 
[The Petitioner] has served as an expert reviewer to judge the works of other 
scientists publishing in highly regarded journals in the field. 
[The Petitioner] was invited and served as an expert reviewer for the journal 
Nanotechnology. Nanotechnology aims to publish papers at the forefront ofl I 
materials science and technology and especially those of an interdisciplinary nature. To 
be publishable in this journal, papers must meet the highest scientific quality standards, 
contain significant and original new science, and should make substantial advances within 
a particular area otj !science and technology. 
By way of comparison, the following statement appears in the Petitioner's own statement: 
I have been invited and served as an expert reviewer for manuscripts submitted to peer­
reviewed journal-Nanotechnology. Nanotechnology aims to publish papers at the 
forefront ofl I science and technology and especially those of an interdisciplinary 
nature. To be publishable in this journal, papers must meet the highest scientific quality 
standards, contain significant and original new science, and should make substantial 
advances within a particular area ofl lscience and technology. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter signed by her advisor at~I ---~ 
National Laboratory. That letter contains the following passage: 
Using I I, and their mixture, [the Petitioner] compared the electrochemical 
performances of I I composite anodes with controlled defect density. She 
further conducted a systematic analysis of the defects-related formation of different 
alloying products. 
A nearly identical passage had previously appeared in the Petitioner's introductory letter: 
I compared the electrochemical performances of I I composite anodes with 
controlled defect density by usinu,-_____________ ___.,I I 
~----------~' and their mixture, and further provided systematic analysis 
of the defects-related formation of different alloying products. 
5 
The use of identical language across various letters from supposedly different sources can diminish 
the weight and credibility of the assertions in those statements. 3 
It also bears mentioning that several of the letters rate the Petitioner highly, but only in a limited 
comparison to "her career stage" as an "emerging early-career scientist." An achievement that is 
unusually significant for a graduate student may be less consequential in the context of the entire field, 
which includes many experts with decades of experience. 
As noted in the cited USCIS policy memorandum, a "goodly number" of articles that "cite the alien's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the alien's contributions to 
the field of endeavor."4 The Petitioner states that the number of citations to her published articles 
establish the importance of her work. The Petitioner provides a table of baseline citation rates from 
Clarivate Analytics, indicating that citations to several of the Petitioner's papers exceed the average 
citation rates for papers in the broad categories of Chemistry, Materials Science, and Engineering. An 
above-average citation rate, however, is not necessarily indicative of major significance in the field. 
Averages alone cannot suffice without ranges to show how the Petitioner's published work compares to 
the most-cited articles. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner showed that one of her articles "received enough 
citations to place it in the top 1 % of the academic field of Materials Science based on a highly cited 
threshold for the field and publication year." This notification, however, was dated "[a]s of 
November/December 2018," several months after the filing date. The Petitioner does not submit similar 
evidence from before the date of filing. The Petitioner must meet eligibility requirements as of the date 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The Petitioner submits percentile figures on appeal, relating to citation rates, but these figures are from 
2019 and do not show where the Petitioner stood as of the filing date in June 2018. 
The same printout that refers to the Petitioner's article as "highly cited" also shows the citation totals for 
30 of the 59 articles that the Petitioner and her co-authors cited in that article. At the time, the Petitioner's 
article had 54 citations. Of the 30 listed sources, 25 had more than 54 citations; 6 of those articles were 
cited more than 1000 times each. The evidence indicates that the Petitioner's work falls within a narrow 
research area that, overall, has attracted significant interest and attention in the field, but it does not show 
that the Petitioner's work is of major significance within that same area. 
The Petitioner also submitted percentile rankings for page views of some of her articles, compared to 
other articles that appeared in the same issues of the respective journals. The Petitioner does not establish 
a direct correlation between page views and citation, or other measurable indicia of impact. 
3 See Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility determination in asylum 
proceedings based in part on the similarity of the affidavits); see also Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dep 't. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 
519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits 
strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined 
not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) 
(quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 l&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra. 
G 
The Petitioner submits a table comparing the citations of her papers from 2017 and 2018 to the citations 
earned by three other "highly esteemed scientists" during the same period. The Petitioner does not 
establish that those three individuals constitute a representative sample. 
The record shows that, at the time of filing, one of the Petitioner's fellow graduate students at~I ---~ 
had nearly 60 more citations than the Petitioner, despite publishing a slightly smaller number of articles. 
The other student's h-index and i-10 index (which track overall citation rates rather than the performance 
of individual articles) are also higher than the Petitioner's indices. 
Among the articles that cite to her work, the Petitioner draws special attention to six "important review 
articles published by prestigious publications, which reported, commented and cited [her] research 
contributions." Unlike other articles that report on original research and cite source material for 
background, these review articles report on recent literature pertaining to a particular area of interest. 
Each review article contains, on average, more than 190 citations. The articles do not indicate that the 
cited sources were chosen because of their importance or influence, as opposed to their relevance to the 
subject under review. 
The review articles offer different degrees of evaluation of the Petitioner's work. An article in 
ChemistrySelect, which "focus[es] on some of the effective strategies in boosting the electrochemical 
performance ofl ~," states that the Petitioner's "article offers an effective and 
broadly adaptable method to establish different~----~building blocks for cell electrode 
materials." The Petitioner's article is one of at least six cited in the section headed 'I t' 
Several other review articles focus on describing, rather than evaluating, the research in the articles 
reviewed. 
Apart from scholarly literature, the Petitioner contends that her work has also attracted attention from the 
mainstream press, the most prominent example of which appears to be an online article from NBC News. 
That article describes research into' clothes" by several different groups, one of which 
is the Petitioner's research team at I I The article identifies the faculty member in charge of the 
research, but does not mention the Petitioner individually. Likewise, the other submitted articles (many 
of which are further distillations ofl 6 press release) identify I I but not the Petitioner. 
Because the articles do not distinguish the Petitioner from other anonymous members of the research 
team, they cannot serve to identify specific contributions that the Petitioner personally made. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner has not shown the extent to which her 
work has influenced the field, for example through use of her patented technology. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director unreasonably called for evidence of widespread use of her work. The 
Petitioner, however, deals in applied science and engineering. Given that the Petitioner has pointed to 
her patents as evidence of her contributions, it is relevant to consider how the patented technology has 
been put into use. The regulation calls for evidence of original contributions of major significance. 
Patents, on their own, attest to originality rather than significance. 
7 
The Petitioner's work concerns the generation and storage of electricity, which is an area of significant 
interest with practical applications that affect many areas of everyday life. It is not enough, however, to 
work in an important area, or to study at a well-regarded institution. The Petitioner played a key role in 
a research project that I I publicized in a press release, which several news outlets then carried, 
but the results reported in that press release were tentative and preliminary, with disclaimers about the 
work that remains to be done before commercial implementation becomes possible. 
Likewise, the field's interest in certain types of battery technology have led to citations of some of the 
Petitioner's articles, but the evidence made available to the Director was highly selective and does not 
show recognition of the Petitioner's work, in particular, as having major significance. The Petitioner 
notes that researchers in several different countries have cited her published work, but this geographic 
distribution does not inherently attest to the significance of the work cited. 
The Petitioner continues to engage in promising work that could lead to important new practical 
applications, but she has not shown that, as of the time of filing, she had made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. At the time of filing, 
the Petitioner was still a graduate student. As of this adjudication, her postdoctoral training is still 
ongoing. As noted previously, letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner is "at the very top of the 
field comparing [sic] to her peers in the same field as [sic] emerging early-career scientist," and "has 
risen to the very top of her field at her career stage." The regulatory threshold, however, is the very top 
of the field, not the very top of "her peers" "at her career stage." The Petitioner cannot arbitrarily exclude 
the most experienced and accomplished members of her field when establishing her standing in that field. 
We have already explained why the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published material about her. Beyond the prior discussion, it is 
significant that all the submitted published material appeared in late July 201 7. Other deficiencies 
aside, a single burst of media attention is not strong evidence of sustained acclaim. 
Similarly, when the Petitioner filed the petition, more than half of her total citations related to one 
article, published in 2014. Had the proceeding reached a final merits determination, we would have 
taken into account that the record does not establish a consistent pattern of heavily cited articles as of 
the filing date. 
The Petitioner continues to perform valuable work, but the earliest stages of a promising career in an 
important field are not tantamount to sustained national or international acclaim. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17039622 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral research associate in environmental chemistry , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This fust preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in µublic health at the Universi o in 2015 and 
undertook postdoctoral training atl_ I Universit .-------------'---fr-o_m_2_0_15-to_2_0_1_7__,. She is now a 
postdoctoral research associate at the University o in H-lB nonimmigrant status. 
The Petitioner's research concerns I I pollutants. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has shown, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that she meets all three claimed criteria. There is no dispute that she has made original 
contributions; the question is whether those contributions are of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner is the co-author of highly cited articles relating to the detection of certain pollutants in the I I The record indicates that other researchers are using the data that the Petitioner gathered, 
as well as detection and measurement techniques that the Petitioner developed or refined. We will not 
repeat the highly technical details here, but the Petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that some of her contributions have major significance in the field. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
eligibility. 
Given the structure of the regulations and the two-step analysis described in Kazarian, the satisfaction of 
three evidentiary criteria does not automatically or presumptively establish eligibility. Some criteria are 
much more easily satisfied than others, and we must consider each piece of evidence through the lens of 
sustained acclaim. 
The record as a whole does not establish sustained national or international acclaim. The Petitioner has 
written scholarly articles and peer reviewed manuscripts by others, but the record does not show that she 
has done so at a level that elevates her above most others in her field, or that these activities amount to 
rare privileges rather than expected activities of a researcher in that field. Some activities satisfy 
regulatory criteria, but in a manner that neither reflects prior acclaim nor results in subsequent acclaim. 
For example, the publication of scholarly articles, as described at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), is not a 
privilege reserved for top researchers. Rather, it appears to be routine and expected in many academic 
disciplines. 
Likewise, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) is broad enough to encompass a wide range of 
activities that involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, 
sustained acclaim in the field. The record shows that the Petitioner was reviewing manuscripts while 
she was still a doctoral student, and that peer review is a routine part of the publication process rather than 
a rare privilege extended only to top experts. (A document in the record refers to "2 million researchers" 
performing peer review, and describes efforts to recruit still more reviewers.) The Petitioner has not 
explained why her review of a high number of manuscripts equates to acclaim. She has not shown that 
the most accomplished and recognized researchers perform more peer review. 
The Petitioner has solicited letters from other researchers who speak highly of her talents and 
contributions, but the Petitioner does not establish that these views represent a consensus that 
demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim. In this context, we note that at the time of filing, 
the Petitioner stated that she seeks employment as an assistant professor atl !University, 
or an unspecified position with thel I of the U.S. Environmental Protection 
1 See also 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
Agency itj I The record contains no evidence that either of those prospective employers 
offered her a position. The Petitioner has not established a demand for her services commensurate with 
her claimed reputation in the field. Related to the above point, her status as a postdoctoral research 
associate indicates that, at the time of filing, the Petitioner was still undergoing training ( albeit at a high 
level) under the direction of another researcher. It is possible for a researcher to reach the top of the field 
at such a relatively early stage of one's career, but there is no presumption that involvement in influential 
research at the postdoctoral stage is indicative ofindividual acclaim. More often, it results from affiliation 
with a mentor or laboratory with an already-established reputation. Employment with a prestigious 
institution shows that the institution has a high opinion of one's qualifications, but such employment does 
not inherently confer national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner places significant emphasis on citations to her published work. The record does not 
establish a pattern of consistently high citation of that work. Rather, three of her 32 articles account for 
half the citations as of the filing date. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that her most recent 
work before the filing date at the University I I has attracted comparable attention. The 
Petitioner submits charts showing percentile rankings of article citations, but owing to the nature of such 
data, even a very small number of citations can reach a high percentile during the period immediately 
following publication. 
While the Petitioner has shown that she participated in well-received research, the record as a whole does 
not show that she has attained the sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16965277 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the 
alternative, met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We dismissed 
the Petitioner's appeal, and two subsequent combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. 
The matter is now before us on a third combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner submits new evidence along with copies of previously submitted evidence. The Petitioner 
describes the new evidence and asserts that we did not sufficiently consider evidence submitted earlier. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening the 
proceeding, or established that our decision to dismiss his second motion to reopen and reconsider was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy. 
2 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner holds a I I black belt in theL..._ ____ ___,----.-------' style of 
karate, having competed at various levels since 2002. The Petitioner joined.__ __ ..... s national karate 
team in 2012, and claimed to still be a member of that team in 2018 although he had been in the United 
States in 2017 as a B-1 visitor, a nonimmigrant classification that does not include employment 
authorization. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, that he 
satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v)(i)-(x). 
Specifically, the Director found that he met none of those criteria. After a de novo review of the 
record, we reached the same conclusions and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal in May 2019. 
The Petitioner then filed two combined motions to reopen and to reconsider. We dismissed both 
combined motions, in April 2020 and November 2020 respectively. The matter is now before us on a 
third combined motion to reopen and to reconsider, which includes a one-page statement, two letters, 
copies of documents, and photographs from a competition inl I Japan. Some of these materials 
are copies of materials that the Petitioner submitted previously. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner submits photographs from .. ._ ____________ __.competition 
that took place inl lin 2014, which the Petitioner previously termed a "world championship." 
The Petitioner has claimed that he won a gold medal at the 2014 event, and thereby received a major, 
internationally recognized award as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We devoted a full page 
of discussion to this issue in our May 2019 appellate decision. In our November 2020 motion decision, 
we stated: 
While the record contains evidence related to the Petitioner's participation m a 
competition inl I inl 12014, it does not support [the] claim that this was a 
world championship event in karate, that the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event, or 
that the I !national karate team received a bronze medal at the event. 
The photographs from the event do not intrinsically establish the significance of the competition or 
recognition of prizes awarded there. 
The motion includes a new letter from the president of.__ ________________ ..... 
Florida. The Petitioner states that the letter "provid[ es] details about the championship that took place 
inl I Japan." The meaning of parts of the letter is not entirely clear. The letter reads, in part: 
In 2014 [ the Petitioner] returned to meet us ,__in-I __ ~I J=a..._.pan and it is very good highlight 
that [the Petitioner] won Gold Medal in th~ lworld Championship. 
3 
The world championship of .... 1 ~~-- ..... 1 is held once every five years and has 
prestigious tournament in the world. 
[The Petitioner] took part in the group of eighteen and up age, where he won the title 
of the world champion by winning all his competitors. 
It is considerable, that he won the well-known athlete, who represented Japan. It is a 
great result, that he won the Japan athlete during the world championship holding in 
Japan. 
The owner of the club in Florida does not claim or establish authority to speak on behalf of the 
organizers of thd I event. As a result, his comments are not strong evidence that the event was a 
world championship competition -not every international match is a world championship -or that 
the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event. The submitted photographs show the Petitioner holding 
a small trophy and a certificate, but there is no medal visible. The translation of the certificate calls 
the Petitioner "the champion of the private championship of boys," but does not indicate that he won 
a world championship title. 
We note that the Florida club owner asserts that the Petitioner "took part in the group of eighteen and 
up age," but the Petitioner was 17 years old irl ! 2014 when the event took place (hence the 
certificate's reference to the "championship of boys"). This apparent error casts farther doubt on the 
individual's reliability as a source of factual information about the event. 
If the Petitioner's title at the 2014 I I competition is a major, internationally recognized prize as 
he claims, then it is reasonable to expect evidence that the Petitioner's performance at the event 
received significant international attention at the time. A letter from a third party, written six years 
after the fact, does not establish such recognition. 
Apart from the letter discussed above, the Petitioner states: "I am also submitting evidence that I am 
recognized as a well-known person by the Facebook." The Petitioner does not identify the evidence 
that supports this claim. The exhibits submitted on motion do not include any printouts from 
Facebook, or statistics showing that his Facebook page has a sizeable following, consistent with 
sustained acclaim. The exhibits submitted on motion do not include any evident references to 
Facebook at all. 
The Petitioner has not established good cause for reopening the proceeding, and therefore we will 
dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
In order to warrant reconsideration, the Petitioner must establish that our decision to dismiss his previous 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy 
and was incorrect at the time of that decision. 
4 
The Petitioner's second motion, filed in May 2020, included a letter from the president ofthel.__ __ __. 
National Karate Federation. In our November 2020 decision, we determined that the Petitioner had 
apparently submitted this letter "to address the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the 
leading and critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii)." We determined that the letter does not 
"elaborate on the selection process fotj !national team members. Therefore, it does not overcome 
our previous determination that the record lacks evidence that membership on the team requires 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts." We also concluded 
that the record did not corroborate the official's "claim that [the 20141 I competition] was a world 
championship event in karate, that the Petitioner won a gold medal at the event, or that thel I 
national karate team received a bronze medal at the event." 
In his latest motion, the Petitioner states: 
I am submitting documentation to show that the decision rendered did not consider the 
evidence already in the record, specifically, that thel !National Karate Team is 
well recognized by the Minis7 of Sports and Education irj I that the letter from 
the president of [the j Karate Federation ... provided detailed explanation and 
description on the election process of the members to the National Karate Team and my 
role in it. 
The Petitioner does not elaborate further on the above points. 
Although the Petitioner now asserts that the letter contains a "detailed explanation and description [ of] 
the election process of the members to the National Karate Team," we can find no such explanation 
or description in the letter, and the Petitioner does not quote any such passage from the letter. 
The letter does discuss the nature of the Petitioner's role on the team, but we devoted two paragraphs 
of our November 2020 decision to that subject. The Petitioner does not explain how we erred in our 
prior decision in this respect. The general assertion that we did not give the letter enough consideration 
is not sufficient to warrant reconsideration. 
The motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) 
requires dismissal of the motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the 
motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 28, 2024 InRe: 31261488 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Petitioner fulfilled only two (judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)) of the six claimed 
categories of evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains her qualification for one additional 
criterion. Issues and prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO­
R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 
2012)). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate she meets at least three 
categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
USCIS determines if the person was the recipient ofprizes or awards. 1 The description of this type of 
evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or 
prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
USCIS then determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award, which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
2 
The Petitioner contends her eligibility for this criterion based on her receipt of the 2020 
Best Article Award" from the 5 and I 
I I The record contains background information about _____ However, none 
of the material mentions the I . I Best Award, let alone establishes the award's national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter from D-P-, co-editor for who stated: 
The I I Award is given to one outstanding manuscript each year. A 
committee chooses the best article from those published in the previous year, based on 
three criteria: contribution to knowledge in social science, quality and execution of 
research design, and accessibility to peers in other social sciences. The author(s) 
receive a $1,000 cash award and are honored at the President's Reception and Awards 
Ceremony. [The Petitioner's] paper was one of over 50 papers published in 2019, and 
her selection for the award speaks volumes to the quality of work and significance of 
its contribution not just to sociology but to the social sciences more broadly. 
The Petitioner also submitted an email from A-A-, president ofl I who also repeated the selection 
criteria for the award. The evidence, however, does not discuss the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the field's 
acknowledgement of the award for excellence beyond I I Without additional 
documentation or information, the Petitioner has not shown that the field views thel IBest 
Article A ward as a national or international award for excellence. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show she satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 7 
5 changed its name to the _________ in 2022. Seel lscreenshots contained in the 
record and submitted by the Petitioner. 
6 The record also contains a list ofwinners from 2014 -2020; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the evidence 
establishes the national or international recognition for excellence of the award. 
7 See also generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish she satisfies three categories of evidence. As such, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and we 
reserve this issue. 8 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8538185 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral optoelectronics researcher, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a postdoctoral researcher in the electrical and computer 
engineering department at the University I I Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on the citation record of his work and patents. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Regarding his citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar and claimed 
that "[p ]erhaps the strongest evidence of the major significance of [his] scientific and scholarly 
contributions is the 1,131 citations his work has received to date." However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how his cumulative number of citations identifies which of his works represent 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
contributions of major significance in the field. In addition, aggregate citation figures tend to reflect 
an alien's overall publication record, rather than identifying which research the field considers to be 
majorly significant. 2 Further, several factors may impact total citations figures, such as the number of 
published articles and length of career of the author. Here, evaluating cumulative citations is more 
appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation in a final merits determination if 
the alien meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. See Kazarian 596 F .3d at 1115. 3 
In addition, the Petitioner contended that "his individual papers are also among the most cited in his 
field" and claimed that nine of his papers placed between O .1 % to 10% most cited papers in the year 
of publication. The record reflects that he provided data from Clarivate Analytics regarding baseline 
citation rates and percentiles by year of publication for the physics field. The comparative ranking to 
baseline or average citation rates, however, does not automatically establish majorly significant 
contributions in his field. 4 Again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field rather than where his citation rates rank among the 
averages of others in his field. Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide corroborating evidence to 
complement each of his articles. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his nine articles, using Clarivate Analytics methodology through citation numbers and percentiles, 
resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Furthermore, the evidence from Google Scholar reflected that his highest cited article received over 
300 citations, with two of his articles receiving over 200 citations and one article receiving over 100 
citations. Once again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only 
identify his original contributions but to also explain why they are of major significance in the field. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his citations for these 
published articles are commensurate with contributions of major significance. 5 Here, the Petitioner 
did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. Although his citations 
2 In fact, the Petitioner submitted a recommendation letter from) I who indicated that "a citation total 
this high is not necessarily completely unusual among physics researchers." 
3 Similarly, the Director indicated in his request for evidence and decision that [ w]hen compared with his co-authors, the 
significance of the number of [the Petitioner's] citations is significantly less impressive." Here, the evaluation of the 
Petitioner's cumulative citations to the cumulative citations of others in the field is more appropriate in a final merits 
determination rather than in establishing eligibility for this criterion. 
4 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, physics papers published in 2018 receiving only nine, five. 
and two citations are claimed to be in the top 0.01 %, 0.10%, and 1.00%, respectively. The Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that papers with such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced 
by being among the top percentile of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
3 
indicate his research has received attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his 
citation numbers to these articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner argued that "[a] much better way to 
use citations to evaluate the major significance of [his] work is by comparing the level of citation of 
his individual scholarly contributions to those of all papers published in his field in the same year." 
Although the Petitioner submitted additional screenshots from Clarivate Analytics comparing the 
citations of his two highest cited articles to the citations of articles from 2015 and 2016, such a 
comparative analysis does not necessarily show that all articles receiving a certain level of citations in 
a particular year automatically establishes contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that his two highest cited articles qualify as contributions of major significance 
based on likening his articles to those published in the same year. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered three recommendation letters that recount his research and findings 
and indicate their publications in journals. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not 
sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have impacted the field in a significant manner. 
For instance,.__ _________ __. discussed the Petitioner's Advanced Materials article and 
indicated that "[ t ]he ultimate result was the fabrication of I I LEDs with the highest~ 
I I efficiency ever reported." However, I I did not explain how the Petitioner's 
research significantly impacted the field. Likewise, I I referenced the 
Petitioner's Advanced Materials article and stated the Petitioner "achieved the best ever recorded 
efficiency for D LED light." Again,! ~ did not elaborate and show how the field 
considers this result to be a contribution of major significance. 
Similarly, althoug~ I opined that the Petitioner's Nano Letters article was "ground-breaking, 
first-of-its-kind research ofl I nanocrystals" and "was among the first a few researchers to 
confirm thatl I also have [sic] very good I I properties as well," he did not explain 
how this original finding resulted in being majorly significant in the field. Likewise,! I 
and I I summarized the Petitioner's research and findings in his Nano Letters article 
without providing farther information showing that the research rises to a level of major significance 
required for this regulatory criterion. Again, publication alone is not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Moreover, 
while I l I I andl I indicated that they have cited to the Petitioner's 
work in their own written material, they did not show how the Petitioner's articles have been majorly 
significant in the overall field beyond their own work. 6 
As discussed above, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Regarding his patents, the Petitioner submitted evidence showin him as the inventor of four patents. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided an email from indicating that I I D "is planning to commerciali[z]e fo .__ __ ___. applications," and "[w]e are now 
negotiating license terms with I ~ The Director concluded: 
The [Petitioner's] patents have been recognized for their potential as is evidenced by 
the licensing negotiations; however, the evidence submitted does not indicate that the 
potential was realized prior to the time of the filing of this petition. 
A patent is evidence of originality and may support that the petitioner's contribution is 
original. The issuance of a patent, by itself: does not verify the significance of the 
innovation patented because the patent's significance is not evaluated during the 
application process. 
Although the patents show the originality of the Petitioner's work, without evidence 
that the invention or innovation has been widely used or adopted in the field, or have 
otherwise influenced the field in a significant way, the patents do not establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
The contribution of the innovation to the field as a whole must be determined by USCIS 
on a case-by-case basis. There is no evidence that the patent has already been licensed 
and/or resulted in significant commercial sales, or had an impact on researchers or 
individuals in the field. 
As he sufficiently and correctly evaluated and discussed the Petitioner's patent evidence, we concur 
with the Director's findings. Moreover, as indicated by the Director, a patent generally recognizes the 
originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish it as a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner's patents show the originality of his work, but he did not 
demonstrate that any of them resulted in major significance in the field. 
Furthermore, although he references an article posted on forbes.com stating that "[ o ]f today's 2.1 
million active patents, 95 percent fail to be licensed or commercialized," the Petitioner did not 
establish that the two referenced patents in the email were commercialized byl I rather 
than in the process of negotiations. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a company's 
negotiation to potentially commercialize a patent demonstrates that the field already recognizes it as 
being majorly significant. Regardless, the Petitioner did not show that the commercialization of 
patents by companies automatically evidences contributions of major significance in the field. Even 
if I I commercialized the patents, the Petitioner did not establish the impact or influence 
of the patent in the overall field rather than limited to the company. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
8 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
demonstrate the result of the company's commercialization, such as high sales or widespread usability 
of a product or application. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8537082 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a set designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a production designer fotj !Films in~I ----~ 
California. Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Although we agree with the Director regarding the display criterion, we do not concur with the 
Director's decision relating to the awards criterion for the reasons discussed below. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets two additional criteria. Moreover, although the 
Petitioner claims that she submits new exhibits, the record does not reflect any new documentation 
accompanying her brief 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that 
she received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field of endeavor. 2 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility 
under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we will withdraw the findings of the Director for this 
criterion. 
1 Under the procedural history portion of her briet: the Petitioner indicates, "See Exhibit 1 for copies of the Requests For 
Evidence and the Decision." However, the Petitioner only provides the Director's decision. Moreover, under the 
membership and published material criteria arguments, the Petitioner states "See new Exhibit 2( d), Exhibit 2( e))" and "See 
new Exhibit 3(b ))." Again, the record does not reflect any new exhibits. Further, the exhibits the Petitioner references 
appear to be the same documentation presented in response to the Director's request for evidence. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on receiving "Best 
Production Design/Art Direction" at thel !American Movie Awards (AMA) for her work on I I The Petitioner submitted screenshots from AMA's website indicating: 
Originally founded in 1980 and televised nationally, the [AMA] arouse to honor 
excellence in filmmaking, with winners such as Meryl Streep, Warren Beatty, Clint 
Eastwood, and Steven Spielberg. The awards influenced a generation of ambitious 
filmmakers with dreams to one day be recognized for their filmmaking achievements 
before their industry colleagues and the entertainment industry alike. 
Under new direction and with a renewed spirit, the [AMA] has reemerged to celebrate 
the very best in independent filmmaking. Our annual film and screenwriting 
competition is an important event aimed at recognizing independent filmmakers who 
are truly at the forefront of their craft as well as launching the careers of aspiring 
storytellers whose talent is of a caliber that demands accolade. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that an AMA qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized 
award for excellence in the field. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting 
the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 While the 
screenshots indicate that AMA was founded almost 40 years ago, the screenshots also imply that it 
ceased operation shortly thereafter and recently reemerged focusing on independent filmmaking. 4 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international significance of herc=]AMA. 
Moreover, although the website states that familiar individuals in the film industry have garnered an 
award at the beginning AMA's creation, the Petitioner did not show how the mere act of distributing 
an award to well-known people demonstrates its national or international recognition for excellence 
in the field. 5 
In addition, the record contains an article posted on internationalfilmreview.net regarding! I D that mentioned the film as an AMA winner, along with other film festival awards. Further, the 
record contains another article posted on people.en indicating that the Petitioner received an AMA for 
her work od I While the AMA screenshots reflect that the original AMA ceremony was 
nationally broadcasted on television, the Petitioner did not establish how two website articles 
referencing the AMA demonstrate a level of media coverage consistent with a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. The Petitioner, for example, did not 
provide sufficient evidence of national or international news exposure reporting on AMA ceremonies. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her short film, 
.__ ______________ ____, "selected to be shown in the Short Film Center of thd I 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 The original AMA only occurred in 1980 and 1982, and then started-up again in 2014. 
5 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence showing a list of awards, including an AMA, received by actor 
Harry Lennix. Again, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how receiving an award establishes its national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. 
3 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received an award or prize from CIFF. Instead, 
she presented evidence showing its selection to be viewed at CIFF. Furthermore, the Petitioner did 
not establish that being "selected to be shown" is tantamount to receiving a prize or award consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. Here, the Petitioner did not show her "receipt" of an award from CIFF. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner directed the film. However, the Petitioner's field of 
endeavor is set design. In fact, according to her letter of intention submitted at initial filing, the 
Petitioner "intend[s] to continue working in the United States as a Set Designer, who specializes in 
Production Design and Art Direction." Although she provided a screenshot from 
onetcodeconnector.org relating to stage, motion pictures, television, and radio directors listing various 
samples of reported job titles, including art directors, the Petitioner did not establish that directing 
films fall within her field of endeavor of set design, production design, or art direction. See Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and 
coaching are not within the same area of expertise because it is reasonable to interpret continuing to 
work in one's "area of extraordinary ability" as working in the same profession in which one has 
extraordinary ability, not necessarily in any profession in that field). Even if she garnered an award 
from CIFF, the Petitioner did not show that she received the award "in the field of endeavor." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that she satisfies this criterion based on membership with the Art Directors Guild 
(ADG) and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IA TSE). In order to fulfill this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 6 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided an "ADG Member Events" document stating: 
The Art Directors Guild (IA TSE Local 800) represents more than 2,600 members who 
work throughout the United States, Canada and the rest of the world in film, televised 
and theater as Production Designers, Arts Directors, Assistant Art Directors; Scenic, 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
Title and Graphic Artists; Illustrators and Matte Artists; and Set Designers and Model 
Makers; and Previs Artists. 
In addition, another ADG document relating to membership eligibility indicates: 
Individuals who perform covered work as a Set Designer or Model Maker under a 
Local 800 or IA TSE collective bargaining agreement may apply for membership thirty 
days following commencement of employment. . . . The individual is obligated to 
submit an application and the required fee in accordance with the Agreement under 
which he or she is employed as the necessary pre-condition to continued employment 
under a union agreement. Many of the local 800 agreements require the preference of 
employment be given to those individuals having previous work in the motion picture 
industry .... 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided ADG's "A Guide to the Guild" reflecting that "[a]pplicants must 
meet eligibility requirements as set forth in the applicable collective bargaining agreements, this 
Local's Constitution, and the IATSE Constitution and Bylaws." Furthermore, "[e]ligibilty for 
application and admission into Local 800 is typically triggered by working for a signatory company 
in a Local 800 covered classification." In addition, the Petitioner presented screenshots from iatse.net 
describing the overall structure, including local unions, districts, and international, and states that 
"[ t ]he IA TSE local unions are organized to represent workers by geographic and craft jurisdiction." 
Although she demonstrated her membership with ADG and IATSE, the Petitioner did not establish 
that these union memberships require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. Rather, ADG membership is reserved for those 
individuals covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Moreover, such mandatory union 
memberships in order to gain employment do not show that "outstanding achievements" are an 
essential condition for memberships. 7 Likewise, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that "working for 
a signatory company in a Local 800 covered classification" qualifies as "outstanding achievements" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 8 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge 
outstanding achievements for membership, as the eligibility requirements are contingent upon working 
as a set designer or model maker within a collective bargaining agreement 30 days following 
employment. Here, applicants must meet the occupation and collective bargaining agreements rather 
than recognized national or international experts judging outstanding achievements of candidates. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that those responsible for judging membership are comprised 
of recognized national or international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead to a 
conclusion that the alien's membership in the associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include 
where the alien's membership was based on a requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment in certain 
occupations, such as union membership or guild affiliation for actors). 
8 Id. (indicating that the sole basis on years of experience in a particular field is not a relevant factor in determining whether 
an alien's membership requires outstanding achievements). 
5 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although she satisfies the display criterion, she does not meet the awards and 
memberships criteria. Moreover, while she claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, 
relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.9 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience in designing sets for films, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6725482 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a multimedia designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates his most recent employment as a lead product designer atl I I I inl I from February 2017 until the date when this petition was filed 
on January 29, 2018.1 The evidence provides that the Petitioner designed the poster series I I 
~---~(2010[, wrre and directed the short filml 1(2012), and designed the interactive 
costume installation (2015). Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The evidence shows that the Petitioner performed as a judge for the I I 
Youth Micro Film Contest 2015 and th Micro Video Competition 2016). In addition, the 
record indicates that'------.-----.-----' was exhibited at the 2010 Design~rs 
1week
11 International Design Exhibition, was displayed at 1 2015, and 
was screened at several film festivals, including the 2017....._ ____ __,Film Festival in 
Therefore, we agree with the Director's findings regarding the judging and display criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets two additional criteria, relating to published materials 
in major media and leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 2 After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 See the Petitioner's Form T-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. The record also contains 
documentation indicating the Petitioner was approved for F-1 nonimmigrant classification to attend! I between 
July 2015 and July 2020, and optional practical training (OPT) between May 2016 and May 2018. 
2 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not 
contest this issue on appeal and therefore we deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 
The Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on four articles, and evidence relating to 
www.qq.com, www.sohu.com, www.163.com, and www.sina.com.cn. The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because the translations accompanying those documents did 
not include the required certification by the translator, and, therefore, the evidence was not sufficient 
to show that the articles are about the Petitioner and his work. On appeal, the Petitioner provides new 
translations of those articles, which establish that the articles are about the Petitioner and his 1ork} 
focusing on his career, including the screening ofc=J at several film festivals, the exhibition of 
inl land his work withl I and I I 
However, the record does not establish that the media in which these articles were published can be 
considered either professional or major trade publications or another type of major media. For 
example, the Petitioner submitted information on country ranking and website traffic regarding 
www.qq.com, www.sohu.com, www.163.com, and www.sina.com.cn., internet portals which are 
popular in China. However, the aforementioned articles were posted on specific webpages within 
those portals, such as, ln.qq.com, edu.163.com, and news.sina.com.cn, about which information was 
not provided. 3 Here, the record does not include information regarding the specific media on which 
these articles were published, and they are therefore not qualifying under this criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner argres eligibility for this criterion based on his roles with I I j I I I and As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or 
was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 5 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in 
a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or establishment's activities. 
It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical. 6 
3 In addition. although the translation of the article from Sahu.com does not include the article's source, a review of the 
article using Google Translate indicates it was posted on the China Education Information webpage, about which 
information was not provided. 
4 We note that the record is vague and inconsistent re~arding the Petitioner's employment in the United States. While the 
Petitioner's work with D. I I, and I appears to have occurred during his period of OPT, 
none of the authors of the recommendation letters from those companies provides the dates of the Petitioner's employment. 
In addition, although the Petitioner listed on the Form T-485 that he was employed with~between February 2017 and 
the date when the petition was filed in January 2018, the Petitioner did not list employment withl I or I I I I. rather, lhe included work with additional employers inl 11 I between May 2015 and June 
2016 and between April and December 2016. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 Id. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that as a lead multimedia designer he "played a critical role in 
launching I l" c=J's leadership assessment tool. He also argues that as a senior product 
desi ner and art director au I he was "instrumental to the redesign and launch" of the 
L...-.......--JF--'r"""e...,wards program, and "helped to optimize and launch several iOS and Android applications of 
the~_~mobile application." Further, the Petitioner asserts that as a user experience lead and product 
designer with I I he played a critical role working "to help create a new web-based project, I ~"7 Although the Petitioner references recommendation letters which confirm his work on 
those projects, the letters do not contain detailed information demonstrating that he performed in a 
leading or critical role as a whole. 8 
First, the Petitioner provided organizational charts to establish the Petitioner's positions within the 
overall hierarchy of the above companies. The Petitioner provided a screenshot fromc=J s staff 
directory, showing that the Petitioner works in the Product Management Department (PM) within 
c=Js Global Shared Services Division (GSS). The Petitioner also submitted a partial organizational 
chart, not bearing any indicia that~prepared the chart, that indicates that GSS is one of twenty­
two divisions withinc=J The organizational chart froml I shows that the Petitioner 
worked within one of the company's ten departments. Further, regarding.__ __ ~-~----' the 
record includes a chart that only reflects the hierarchy for a single project team, the business 
unit. The chart does not reflect at what leadership level the petitioner operated within~--~ I I. Based on this evidence, the Petitioner did not show that his positions within the overall 
hierarchy of the above companies was such that he has established the leading nature of his roles. 
In addition, the submitted documentation also does not establish that the Petitioner contributed to the 
companies in a way that was significant to their success or standing in the field. For instanceJ I 
I I general manager of c=J' s PM, indicates that he is the founder of I I and that the 
Petitioner was the lead multimedia designer onl l He states that the Petitioner "independently 
created ourl I Series" which he describes as providing "key metrics for measuring the 
success and progress of our clients." He also asserts that "the critical role [the Petitioner] has played 
in the success of I" )' is demonstrated by the fact Human Resource Executive magazine named 
I I one of its top HR products of the year, and the sale of "hundreds of units" ofl I 
generating "over a million dollar[s] in total revenue." His letter is accompanied by a copy of the 
recognition certificate given to~ for 'Top HR Product -I I" However, D 
I I did not point to any specific documentation or evidentiary~n support of his claim 
regarding the sales figures for I I or that increased sales of l___J or its recognition by 
Human Resource Executive magazine is attributable to the Petitioner. Further, his letter does not 
describe the manner in which the Petitioner's role as the lead multimedia designer on the I I 
tool resulted in the success or standing o~~-~~s a whole. 
7 On appeal, the Petitioner referenced unpublished AAO decisions that purportedly support his eligibility claims. While 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that AAO precedent decisions are binding on all USCTS employees in the 
administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that this is one criterion where letters from 
individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to 
USCIS officers in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
4 
~ing the Petitioner's employment with I I he presented a letter froml 
L__J a former senior manager at I !loyalty program, who states that the 
Petitioner "led two application interface and user experience redesigns for Android phones." He 
asserts that the Petitioner's "critical impact on our work" is shown by an increase in rating ofl I 
from 3.5 "prior to the release of [the Petitioner's] changes" to a "peak" rating of 4.2 "[a] few weeks 
after the newly-developed version," which he claims "involves thousands of people, if not more, 
changing their minds." I ldid not point to any specific documentation or evidentiary exhibits 
in support of this claim. The Petitioner has not established the claimed fact with unsupported 
testimonial evidence alone. I I, a former senior manager of1 I states 
that the Petitioner's ability as a design leader was "critical" to the success of the ~ redesign 
because his "handling of all of the Android interface's redesign freed up all of the staff that would 
otherwise be dedicated to the prrject."11 1 and I I do not describe the manner in 
which the Petitioner's role on the redesign projects reflects a role equally critical to the success 
of~-----~ as a whole. On appeal, the Petitioner, through counsel, asserts that the evidence 
demonstrated "the financial benefit his product has brought to the company." However, the authors 
of the aforementioned letters do not state that a financial benefit resulted from the Petitioner's work 
related td I Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 
533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include 
affidavits and declarations. 
Regarding I I the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I the company's CEO, 
who states that the company is "a foll-time programing boot camp." He indicates that he has known 
the Petitioner "for a few years," and that he met the Petitioner "through a product design project for 
my company's then-new web-based project,! I He states that he delegated to the Petitioner 
"the planning, management, and leadership of all design phases" and that in "third-party user-tests 
... [the Petitioner's] designs had the highest ratings available." He asserts that "[a] lot of the success 
of our products has been due to the critical role of [the Petitioner] in designing our products." D I I does not describe, however, the manner in which the Petitioner's role for the I !project 
reflects a role critical to the success of I I as a whole, and the record does not contain 
evidence which would corroborate his claims about any success the company's products have enjoyed 
that is attributable to the Petitioner. 
Here, the organizational charts provided did not establish that the Petitioner's positions within the 
overall hierarchy of the above companies was such that he has established the leading nature of his 
roles. The submitted documentation also does not establish that the Petitioner contributed to the 
companies in a way that was significant to their success or standing in the field. The lack of specific 
information does not provide probative information to demonstrate the Petitioner's leading or critical 
roles for the above-referenced organizations. 
Finally, the Petitioner did not establish the distinguished reputation of I l 9 Although D 
I rs recommendation letter provided brief background information, the Petitioner did not offer 
any supporting documentation to corroborate the claim. For example, promotional material from0 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster ·s Dictiona1y definition of 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
5 
~-~I indicates that it was founded in 2013 "to teach students the skills they need to become 
successful app developers" and build "their iOS or Android portfolios," and that it "pioneered" the 
approach that "enables students to work as interns on real projects." Again, the Petitioner did not 
submit corroborating evidence, nor did he demonstrate the significance of those statements. The 
Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view ofl I how its 
reputation compares to similar establishments, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to 
others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7674392 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a mountain biker and cyclist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment at~Bicycle Store in I I Ohio. Because the 
Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
references eligibility for two additional criteria. 1 Moreover, although the Petitioner claims that he has 
"provided additional evidence in documents attached to this letter," the record does not reflect that he 
presented any documentation accompanying his appeal letter. After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he "provided enough evidence" regarding the 2008 .... l __ ---,-~l~N_a_t_io_n_a_,l 
Downhill Championship, the 20lcl I Mountain Bike Series, and the 20151~--~I 
European Games. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the 
prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a hotograph of a medal and trophy claiming that it 
represented his first-place finish at the 200 National Downhill Championship. In addition, 
he submitted a letter from~ _________ _. of the I I Cycling Union, who confirmed 
the Petitioner's racing result and described the racing competition. However, the letter does not 
provide specific, detailed information demonstrating that a first-place finish at the 20081 I 
1 We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
2 
National Downhill Championship represents a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award 
for excellence in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, the letter focuses on the 
history and background of the racing event without showing the national or international significance 
of the prize or award. 
Likewise, the Petitioner submitted a photograph of a second-place medal from the 2016._ ____ __. 
Mountain Bike Series. Further, he presented a document entitled, 'I I History Tirneline," briefly 
highlighting sornel I events from 1990-2011. The document, however, did not mention the 2016 
event, nor did the Petitioner establish that he received a second-place medal. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that a second-place medal from the 20161 I Mountain Bike Series 
qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a certificate and medal for his participation at the 20151~--~ 
European Garnes. However, the Petitioner did not offer any supporting evidence showing that his 
participation at the competition is tantamount to a nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award for excellence in the field. In fact, the record contains a screenshot from rntbcrosscountry.corn 
reflecting that the Petitioner finished in 3 7th place. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such 
a finish constitutes a prize or award "for excellence in the field of endeavor." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the published material 
criterion, he does not meet the awards criterion. Moreover, while he claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 4 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
Although the Petitioner has experience in competing in mountain biking and cycling events, the record 
does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6711634 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician specialized in the "jinghu" musical instrument , seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met 
only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must satisfy at least 
three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner performs on the jinghu, a Chinese bowed string instrument, and has played it in several 
concerts involving Chinese Opera ( also referred to in the record as I I Opera) in China and the 
United States. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record reflects that the 
Petitioner was featured in an article published in the newspaper The China Press and therefore we 
agree with the Director's determination that the evidence satisfies the published materials criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional criteria. 2 After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a number of reference letters discussing his 
work as a jinghu performer, including those from musicians who have worked with him, who know 
his work. 3 The Director considered this documentation but found that it was not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major significance in the 
field. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
1 The records ofU.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) show that since 2009 the Petitioner has been studying 
and working in the United States in the field of mechanical and aerospace engineering while in F-1 and H-lB nonimmigrant 
classifications. 
2 The Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) but did not satisty this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal and therefore we 
deem it to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
3 We note that although the Petitioner's appeal briefrefers to letters previously submitted froml 11 
and I I the record before us does not contain letters from those individuals. ~--~ < .,, U 0 
2 
In order to satisfy this criterion a petitioner must establish that not only has he made contributions that 
were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to several letters of support from colleagues in the field, including 
fellow jinghu performers, which he claims indicate that he is "recognized on a worldwide basis as one 
of the foremost Jinghu players who has made original, significant contributions to the field." However, 
as discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record 
include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original 
contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major 
significance. 
For example, I I a jinghu performer, states that the Petitioner "has demonstrated his 
unsurpassed expertise and strong passion to Jinghu" and has performed at "the highest level ... on par 
with the foremost professional players." I l a jinghu performer, describes the Petitioner as 
"a great Jinghu player especially marvelous at rhythm" whose work "is a unique combination of sound, 
tempo and emotion." I I and I I of the~---------r-----....,,....,.-~ I I describe the Petitioner, respectively, as "among a handful of the finest Jinghu players in the 
entire industry in I I ... whose contributions are widely recognized in the realm of Chinese 
Opera Community," and "one of the best Jinghu players in the United States." I I of the 
'----~-----~-------.-----~) calls the Petitioner "one of [the] leading 
contemporary Chinese Jinghu players" and "among the most distinguished Jinghu artists in the 
industry." While those authors praise the Petitioner's skills as a jinghu performer the letters are not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions as a music performer rise to the level of a 
contribution of major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 
LikewiseJ I a musician and the I I of the China Oriental Performing Group, states 
that he practices jinghu weekly with the Petitioner and praises his "outstanding performance skills" 
and "unique performing style." He provides that the Petitioner is "exceptionally talented in 
improvisation" and a "tremendous talent." He claims that the Petitioner's performance in 2018 at the 
.__ _____ ___, Theater in held in the United States," and 
highlights several of the Petitioner's original works, such as and his 
arrangement, for Chinese Opera instruments of the popular song '.__ ______ ___, l 
thei I of the Chinese Opera Club o , indicates that the Petitioner is the organization's 
music director and asserts that the Petitioner's ''--------~' arrangement "for the first tile inl 
history infused Chinese Opera music to a Hollywood masterpiece." The letters o±1 I and 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
3 
~ however, are not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work rises to the level of a 
contribution of major significance in the music field. For instance, the record does not show that the 
Petitioner's compositions, arrangements, or his aforementioned 2018 concert performance have 
widely influenced others in the field of jinghu performance, that his works are highly renowned by 
recognized music critics, or that his original work otherwise constitutes contributions of major 
significance in the field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
Further, I I ofl I University provides that the Petitioner's jinghu performance is 
"virtuosic."I ~ asserts that the Petitioner is knowledgeable in the musical techniques 
of Peking Opera. I . of University ofl I calls the Petitioner "one of the best Jinghu 
players in the world." However, the Petitioner has not shown that I I a art professor whose bac~s the visual arts, I l a composer and lyricist for the American musical theater, 
andL__J, a professor of music practice, are recognized experts in the field ofjinghu performance. 
Finally, the record contains concert programs that mention the Petitioner by name and show that he 
has been a featured performer and ensemble member in several concerts between 2014 and the date 
when the petition was filed in September 2018, including a 2014 performance in China, a 2015 
I I concert, the 2016 Anniversary Celebration at thel lculture Art Center, 
the 2017 Mid-Autumn Festival Concert at the University of I I and the 
aforementioned 2018 concert at the~--------~ However, as discussed previously, the 
Petitioner has not explained or documented the scope and significance of his performance at those 
events and that it represents a contribution of major significance in the field ofjinghu performance. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner argues that he has performed a critical role for two organizationsJ I and□ 
As it relates to a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. It 
is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is or was critical. 6 
The Petitioner provided letters from three representatives ofl I. In her aforementioned letter, 
I I the organization's chairperson, asserts that the Petitioner joined! I in 2015, is on the 
organization's 15-member board of directors, and is the music director of the organiz:tion's Youth 
Trou e. She relates that he has erformed in o era productions includinr;I ~ I 
and I I In his above-
referenced letter, ,__ _ ____,the general manager of~ __ ...,. states that the Petitioner is "extremely 
critical" to the organization as its "chief jinghu player" who "flays the leading role in most of our 
performances." I I, the past president and founder of_ I and the Petitioner's mentor, 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
4 
asserts that the Petitioner instituted the organization's year-end shows and co-founded the ~I--~ 
Youth Troupe, performing with them in stage performances inl !universities and community 
festivals. 
The Petitioner also submitted two letters from I I the president ofl l who states that the 
Petitioner has been the organization's "musical advisor" since 2016, providing children weekly 
instruction in jinghu and other string instruments, and asserts the Petitioner's work is "of vital 
importance forl I' He indicates that the Petitioner has performed Chinese opera arias including ~-----~ I I andl I 
Although the Petitioner references recommendation letters which confirm his work with those 
organizations, the letters do not contain detailed information demonstrating that he performed in a 
critical role as a whole. 7 For instance, the letters did not explain how performing the role "chief'' 
jinghu player and youth troupe musical director forl I or children's music instructor forl I 
resulted in the success or standing of the organizations or otherwise reflected the Petitioner's critical 
role to the organizations. In addition, although I I asserts as a board member "[the Petitioner's] 
decisions directly determined the development of I I' he did not elaborate how such position 
elevated the organization's status. Here, the lack of specific information does not provide probative 
information to demonstrate the Petitioner's critical roles for the organizations. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that either of those organizations enjoy a distinguished 
reputation. 8 Although the recommendation letters provided brief background information, the 
Petitioner did not offer any supporting documentation to corroborate the claims. For example, I I indicated it is a non-profit organization founded in 2006 to introduce and promote Chinese 
traditional opera, it has "organized/hosted a variety of cultural events including public performances, 
community activities and workshops," and is "the most influential Asian culture society" with "the 
best team of professional musicians of Peking Opera in all of the United States." Moreover,! I 
asserted that it was established in 1999 as a non-profit organization promoting and preserving 
"Chinese Opera through performances, educational activities and touring engagements." Again, the 
Petitioner did not submit corroborating evidence, nor did he demonstrate the significance of the 
statements. The Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the 
organizations, how their reputations compare to similar establishments, or how their successes or 
accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory 
criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that this is one criterion where letters from 
individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to 
USCTS officers in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster ·s Dictiona1y definition of 
"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that that, although the Petitioner met the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), he did not establish that he meets the criteria relating to original contributions and 
leading or critical role. We acknowledge that the Petitioner claims eligibility under one additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve that 
issue. 9 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has been a jinghu instructor and performer in several concerts in China and 
the United States, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8640867 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a law firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Beneficiary indicating that he is an "Advisory FSO SAP for 
in New Jersey." Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the '-----------' Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Beneficiary reviewed papers for journals. In addition, 
he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Beneficiary satisfied the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets three additional criteria, discussed below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has the beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary "has written an Amazon Best Seller, 
.__~----~~----~----~-------'' ( emphasis in original). Moreover, the 
Petitioner argues that "becoming a Best Seller for a major retailer like Amazon shows that the book 
has sold more than most publications in its category." The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted 
a screenshot from amazon.com showing that the book was ranked .__ __________ __. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the relevance or scope of the ranking. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
The Petitioner did not, for example, provide sales figures of the book, as well as the figures for the 
other books posted on the screenshot, to explain the book's ranking. Furthermore, the screenshot 
reflects that the book garnered only one review, which does not establish that the field has been 
significantly impacted or influenced. 2 Here, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the book 
in the overall field beyond one person who wrote a review. 3 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided an unidentified screenshot indicating that the book received "199 
Reads." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these readership figures reflect that the book 
has been majorly significant in the field. Again, the Petitioner did not establish the relevance or 
significance of the readership numbers to show that the book rises to the level of major significance 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the record contains a letter froml I, senior specialist ar===l_who praised the 
book for being "well-written" and having "well-paced chapters." However,~ did not explain 
the influence of the book in the field. Instead] I speculates that 'I . 1 1 I I I will be in the top of the preferred books list for learning I I and the tools used in 
educational institutions across the country." Here) Is letter does not demonstrate how the 
Beneficiary's book already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than a 
prospective, potential impact. Further, the letter does not contain specific, detailed information 
explaining the unusual influence or high impact the book has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance in the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion. 5 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that the Director erroneously "compared [26 citations to his written 
work] with 'the leading scientists in the field, whose publications (according to Google Scholar) have 
garnered citations numbered well in the thousands."' In general, the comparison of the Beneficiary's 
cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record 
shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if the Director 
determined he met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. However, 
the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this criterion in order 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. 
2 In addition, a search of amazon.com reveals that the book is "[ c ]urrently unavailable" and"[ w ]e don't know when or if 
this item will be back in stock" ( accessed on May 12, 2020). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
3 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted evidence from Google Scholar reflecting that three of 
the Beneficiary's papers received 10, 8, and 8 citations, respectively. Again, this criterion requires the 
Petitioner to establish that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify the original contributions and explain why they 
are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has 
taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently 
shown that the Beneficiary's citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with 
contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance 
of the citations to the articles. Although the Beneficiary's citations are indicative that his research has 
received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the citation numbers to 
the Beneficiary's individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field.6 
Moreover, publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent 
evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th 
Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596F.3d1115. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary qualifies fo~rion based on his employment with 
c=J, I I, andL___J As it relates to a leading role, the 
evidence must establish that an alien is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can 
help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that an alien has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of an alien's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 8 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted referr=e=n=c=e""'le=t=te=r=s....af=ro=m~------.----_J' ~I--~ 
~------------------, and We note that the 
Director indicated that although the letters from.__ ____________ __. were written on 
behalf of their capacities atD and I I, respectively, the letters were not written on company 
letterhead; and therefore, lacked probative value. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director 
should have considered the content of the letters rather than the format. Here, we agree with the 
Director's assessment that the missing letterheads diminish the credibility and reliability of the 
evidence. Furthermore, the Petitioner does not explain on appeal why the authors, who wrote letters 
using their positions for the companies, did not provide official documentation from their respective 
companies. In addition, the Petitioner does not offer revised letters on appeal, correcting the previous 
inconsistencies. The petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
4 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other 
evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. 
Notwithstanding the above, although the Petitioner claimed that the Benefici~es as an 
"Advisory FSO SAP" for~d previously served as an "Associate Director" forL__J and "SAP 
Technical Architect" fore==) none of the letters corroborate its assertions. Specifically, none of 
the letters mention the Beneficiary's job titles or positions. Instead, the letters generally described the 
Beneficiary as having "been the leader of the data integration project for our practice"! I "[a]s 
the lead reporting architect on [the Business Intelligence and Analytics Reporting], he ensured the 
successful go-live of the new reporting solution" I l and he "managed a portfolio of techno-
functional projects for I l's I , lproduct"I ~-Here, the letters do not show that the 
Beneficiary held a leading position for the companies overall rather than working on projects within 
the companies. 
Furthermore, the letters do not contain sufficient, detailed information establishing that the Beneficiary 
performed in critical roles. 9 Instead, the letters make broad assertions without showing that his role 
was crucial to the companies. For example, "[the Beneficiary] stepped in to help the teams optimize 
the solution which resulted in 85% reduction in data processing time" I I, "[h ]is efficient use of 
technology infrastructure lead to an 80% improvement in data processing time and hence in report 
generation time"I, ,land "[the Beneficiary's] contribution was crucial in our quest to become 
the largest SAP SRM Cloud platform in the world." While the letters reflect various statistics and 
figures, they do not explain how the Beneficiary's contributions resulted in successes to the companies 
overall activities. 
Finally, this regulatory criterion requires the Petitioner to demonstrate that the Beneficiary performed 
in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations.10 While 
we are familiar with the names ofc=] andl l the Petitioner did not offer any documentation 
relating to the distinguished reputations for any of the companies. Instead, the record reflects that in 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided various website addresses 
without submitting screenshots or other evidence showing the content from the websites. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that Webster ·s online dictionary defines 
distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on the Beneficiary's salary withe=] In order 
to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the alien's salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 11 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed that "[ a ]ccording to the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics [BLS] website, the median salary for a Mathematician and Statistician, the overarching 
category of [his] specialty inl I is $84,760." Although it provided a website address, 
the Petitioner did not submit screenshots or other evidence to support its assertions. 
Moreover, the Petitioner farther claimed that "[t]he position for Data Scientist is not yet listed on 
[BLS'] website, because it is fairly new." Again, the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence 
to support its assertion regarding the website. Further, the Petitioner presented BLS' Occupational 
Quarterly entitled, "Working with big data," which indicated that "BLS does not collect data 
specifically about data scientists" and referenced median annual wages for statisticians and computer 
programmers. However, the BLS' Occupational Quarterly is dated Fall 2013 and used 2012 wage 
data. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that at the time it filed the petition in June 2019, BLS 
did not collect salary information from data scientists, nor did the Petitioner show current wage history 
for statisticians and computer programmers. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted four 2018 paystubs from I I and his 2017 IRS Form W-2 
froml I In addition, the Petitioner offered screenshots from 
glassdoor.com regarding "1 0 • I Salaries in I ==:J NY Area."12 Although the 
paystubs reflect the Beneficiary's employment and earnings fromLlthe Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary commands a high salary "in relation to others in the field." As discussed under 
the ~eading Ir critical role criterion, the Petitioner did not show which position the Beneficiary holds 
wit S ecifically, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary is employed as a '0 
.__ _____ ...... '_' ....aiaa,n addition, as previously mentioned, the Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary was 
working fo~-~as an "Advisory FSO SAP." Even if the paystubs are based on the Beneficiary's 
employment as an "Advisory FSO SAP," the Petitioner did not establish how an "Advisory FSO SAP" 
is in relation to the salaries of big data analysts. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary 
information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. 
INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
12 The Petitioner did not demonstrate his position with .... l ~--------~land his earnings from IRS Form 
W-2 does not establish that he commanded a high salary based on the wage data from glassdoor.com. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Beneficiary has reviewed papers and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8618586 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a philanthropist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as president of the.__ _ ____,......,..,....-,---,--,---,---,------,----,------' in I I Province, China. Because the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record 
reflects that the Petitioner judged two speech contests, thereby meeting the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she fulfills three additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner argues that she "submitted evidence of published material featuring her work as a 
Philanthropist by China Central Television [CCTV] ... on thel I 2010, titled! I 
[which] was published via three CCTV platforms; a '-------------------~ televised news segment, in print, and online." In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 1 
The record reflects that the Petitioner presented translations of screenshots from viponline.cctv.com 
indicating an interview of three individuals, one of which is with the Petitioner. Although the 
screenshots indicate cctv.com is the source of the material, the Petitioner did not include the required 
author. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the material is not about the Petitioner. Instead, the host asks questions of the interviewees 
relating to 'I I' Regarding the Petitioner's portion of the interview, the host requested 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
the Petitioner to provide a briefing on includin the overall development situation. 
Here, the screenshots reflect published material about~----~rather than about the Petitioner. 
Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. 
Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, as indicated above, the Petitioner claims CCTV published the material on three media 
platforms: a televised news segment, in print, and online. However, the Petitioner did not support the 
record showing that CCTV broadcasted the interview on "a televised news segment" or that CCTV 
"printed" the interview in a publication. Again, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted 
screenshots of an interview posted on viponline.cctv.com. Moreover, although the Petitioner 
submitted documentation relating to CCTV (the television station), she did not demonstrate that its 
website or viponline.cctv.com represents a major medium. 2 In addition, while a screenshot from 
cctv.com claimed that it "has become one of the most popular websites in the country," the Petitioner 
did not offer any independent, objective evidence to corroborate the website's assertion. USCIS need 
not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO 
(C.D. CA July 6, 2007), aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions 
on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends her eli for this criterion based on an article entitled, ~--~---------------~~ ublished in China Youth Dail and P,Osted on 
The article however is about the the 
r-----------r--------------~andthe~ ____________ ..,,.... 
. In fact, the Petitioner is briefly mentioned one time in providing a quote relating 
to thel , l Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
the article reflects published material about her relating to her work consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that China Youth Daily or cyol.net represents a major 
medium. The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from cyol.net claiming that 
"China Youth Daily is a very influential comprehensive daily newspaper in China" and "one of China's 
best selling domestic newspapers." In addition, the Petitioner offered a screenshot from 
commonpurpose.org reflecting that China Youth Daily is one of Common Purpose's sponsors and cites 
to information contained on cyol.net. However, the Petitioner did not provide independent, objective 
evidence supporting the self-serving assertions of China Youth Daily. Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not offer evidence relating to cyol.net's status as a major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that she "has changed the lives of manyl implverished population nationwide 
via leading "and points to a letter froml I, of China Youth Daily 's c===J. 
As it relates to I l's letter, he described various projects of L__J r----,-su_c_h_a_s_t_h_e_';::::I =---------l-
0-___.f 'and '1 . ~ 
~---'L." involving the construction of roads, bridges, and plazas and educating and training lower 
income students. In addition, the Petitioner points to media coverage of six articles from China Youth 
Daily, People's Daily, people.en, hn.qq.com, voe.com.en, and danzhou.gov.cn, reporting onl I 
I land its projects. 
The China Youth Daily article referenced above summarized~! _____ _.las: 
A large-scale social public benefit activity initiated by thel IProvincial Party 
Committee of Communist Youth League in 2004 on the basis of the touching artistic 
conception and creativity of Tang Dynasty Poem Troubadour's Lament composed by 
Jiao Meng. The purpose is to carry forward the Chinese civilization for feeding the 
people of the native land, and give full play to the emotional ties of family affection, 
hometown affection and friendship affection, so as to inspire the affection of feeding 
hometown and call the native people who are working or living far away hometown to 
do something for hometown, and jointly promote the economic and cultural 
development of the hometown and promote the harmonious progress of their society. 
Further the record contains a letter from.__ _____ __. vice director of I ,-'I~==--' --===--=--=-a~=--=-===---=---=~""'---'=;l who stated that the Petitioner joined the......,_I _____ ___ 
. I and acted as vice director in September 2007. Moreover, 
1-----.,-l-s1-.m-1-.l-ar_l_y_s_u_m_m_a-ri-z-ed---.= .... =_=_=_=_=_=_=-_-~~~_, as: 
A large-scale social public welfare actively firstly launched by ~-----~ 
which is aimed at carrying forward Chinese Civilization and repaying homeland and 
kinfolk, giving full play the emotional ties of "kinship, nostalgia and friendship," 
inspiring the feelings of those travelers far from home, and calling on them to return 
hometown to jointly promote the economic and cultural development of hometowns 
and the harmony and progress of the society. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
In regards to her claim of "leadingl I" the record does not support her assertion. In her 
initial cover letter, the Petitioner indicated that she "is the President of the renowned I I 
[sic] I [" However, none of the documentation contained in the record 
demonstrates that she has ever occupied the position of"President" with eitherl !Action overall 
or within any of the subsidiaries or departments within In fact accordin to her 
resume, she has held the positions of vice director of 
(2007 -2008), director of (2008 -2012), chairman of I l (2009-2012), and honorary chairman ofl I 
~----------------~ (2014 -present). The petitioner must resolve 
inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate thatl I is her original contribution. As 
indicated above, I I began in 2004 by thel I Provincial Party Committee of 
Communist Youth League, and the Petitioner commenced employment with the I I I I Province three years after and then later with the ~I-----~-
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that an of the ro · ects conducted b the 
I lor the~----------------~ were attributed 
to her original contributions. Moreover, none of the media articles mentioned her, let alone credited 
her for creating any of the projects. Further, the letters generally claimed that the Petitioner led and 
directed the projects without providing specific information explaining how the projects were original 
to her. For instance,! I stated that the Petitioner "led all employees ofl land 
I I to actively plan and carry out a series of public welfare activities." Whilel !listed 
and briefly described six programs, he did not show how leading, planning, and carrying out the public 
welfare activities of the center or foundation are original contributions of the Petitioner. 
Moreover, although the articles and letters discuss various welfare projects assisting individuals, the 
Petitioner's evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate how the programs have been of major 
significance in her field overall. 4 Further, the documentation indicates the influence of the projects in I I Province rather than in her field in general. The Petitioner, for example, did not show how 
the welfare activities have influenced or impacted the field as a whole in a significant, major manner. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying her original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence her contributions have had on the overall field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argues that she "has [sic] significant impact on the entire charity system 
in China which has been demonstrated by the adoption of her methodology by other local governments 
all over in China" and references an article from qstheory.cn, a propaganda website from the Chinese 
government, stating that.__ _____ __,s "activities extend[] to other provinces and even to abroad." 
However, the article does not credit the Petitioner with making original contributions, let alone 
mention her. Moreover, while the article claims that I I has expanded to other provinces 
and abroad, the article indicates several individuals who returned to I I Province to offer 
charitable work or provide donations. In addition, the article does not support the Petitioner's 
assertions that she impacted the entire charity system in China and her methodology has been adopted 
by local governments all over China. In fact, the article does not reference any local governments 
beyondl !Province. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the article sufficiently shows that 
she has made original contributions, and that they are majorly significant in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to published material and original 
contributions. Although she claims eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 7 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
Although the Petitioner has experience in philanthropy, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8184678 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher in immunology and food allergy, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a research scientist at the University of I I in ._I __ _. 
Canada. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, the 
Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets an additional evidentiary criterion, discussed below. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner maintains that she has made several original contributions of major significance in her 
field as evidenced by her published research, citation record, and letters from experts in the field. In 
order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director "evaluated her evidence in a manner that does not address 
the substance of the criterion." As it relates to the citation of her work, the Director indicated that 
"while your research demonstrates original contributions in the field, the number of citations of your 
work, when compared with that of the leading scientists in the field, whose publications (according to 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
Google Scholar) have garnered citations numbered well into the thousands, does not demonstrate 
contributions of major significance in the field." In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record 
shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination, if the Director 
determined she met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. However, 
the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this criterion in order 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that she "has authored at least 36 scientific articles, and her articles 
had collectively garnered at least 954 citations already at the time of the Denial .... "2 She provided 
her publication and citation record from Google Scholar, statistical information regarding her number 
of publications and citations from Clarivate Analytics, and excerpts of other published articles that 
cite to her work. 3 The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. Publications are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that her articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [her] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [her] contributions to the field of endeavor."4 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence from Clarivate Analytics showing that some of the articles she 
published were ranked among the top 10% in citations when grouped by academic field (in this case, 
immunology) and year of publication. She further submitted a paper published in the journal 
Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of several that should be used to evaluate 
individual researchers "in the natural and life sciences" for purposes of funding and promotion or 
hiring decisions. The authors state that "publications which are among the 10% most cited 
publications in their subject area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that "the top 10% 
based excellence indicator" should be given "the highest weight when comparing the scientific 
performance of single researchers." However, this evidence does not establish that metrics that may 
be suitable for comparing applicants for academic research positions and grants are indicators that a 
researcher has made contributions of major significance to his or her field. 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. 5 Highly-cited publications alone 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance" as a citation ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or 
2 The Petitioner notes that the Director incorrectly stated that "the record shows 350 citations" to her work. 
3 The Petitioner also referenced unpublished AAO decisions that purportedly support her eligibility claims. As noted by 
the Director, while the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that AAO precedent decisions are binding on all USCIS 
employees in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, immunology papers published in 2017 receiving only seven 
citations are in the top 10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with such citation counts have necessarily 
had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among the top 10% of most highly cited 
articles according to year of publication. 
3 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as she asserts, that any of the articles she 
characterizes as highly cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
While the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that 
evidence, for the reasons discussed below, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's 
research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced her field. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted examples of "notable citations" to her work 
by other researchers. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's research or demonstrate how it has widely impacted the field. For instance, the Petitioner 
provided a partial article entitled, .__ ________________________ __, 
.__ _____ __, (Clinical & Experimental Allergy), in which the authors cited to her 2008 article 
published in International Archives of Allergy and Immunology. 6 However, the article does not 
distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the 119 other cited papers; rather, the 
authors cited her article and nine others in support of a statement that 'I I I I I I" 
The Petitioner also argued that her work "has been published in some of the most prestigious high 
impact journals" in the field. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication of her 
articles in highly ranked journals establishes that the field considers her research to be an original 
contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor 
is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's influence or the 
impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically 
indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that 
publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner emphasized that her publications have been cited in several review articles 
and stated that the appearance of her articles in the review literature demonstrates the "impact and 
originality" of her work. The Petitioner further explains that review articles are "an attempt to ... 
sum up the current state of the research on a particular topic" and may identify "the main people 
workin in a field" and "recent ma· or advances and discoveries." One of the submitted review articles 
titled L...------------------------------------~ (Food Reviews International) cites to two of the Petitioner's studies in this area (published in her 2009 
and 2011 Veterinary Immunology and Immunopathology articles) as showing that I I 
I I . . . I O O I" but does not otherwise ~------~ address the impact of this research or the importance of the Petitioner's findings in these studies, nor 
does it distinguish her papers from the other 131 papers cited. While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions in active scientific research in her field, we cannot 
6 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
determine that every publication cited in a review article is indicative of an original contribution of 
major significance. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of her research through 
recommendation letters praising her for her contributions. 7 In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, and point to the citation of her 
work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of the projects on which she worked, they do not 
show how her research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact 
on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For instanceJ I the Petitioner's doctoral advisor atl !University, indicates that 
one of the Petitioners projects in food allergy research was her investigation of immunotherapeutic 
strategies to alleviate allergies in mice, and that her research identified "several novel vaccine 
candidates." .__ __ ~did not indicate, however, that vaccines or other new therapies to prevent or 
mitigateOallergies have been designed or developed based on the Petitioner's research . 
.__ ______ _.I the Petitioner's post-doctoral research supervisor at the University ofl 
provides that the Petitioner's research group was the "first to focus on the I I for an 
investigation of food allergy usingl las a model." He indicates that the team provided a previously 
unavailable I I regeant to research groups, including I I at I I I O I in I I, "to establish a response ofc=Jto native and allergen-deleted soy," and 
that "top researchers from the United States, Canada, and Mexico" have implemented the group's 
work in their own studies. He further states that the Petitioner's research on the prevention of allergy 
through treatment ofl I with.__ _____ ~ received "significant media attention" 
through ac=] article published in the Canadian better farming magazine Pigs, Pork, and Progress. 
The record contains a copy of the article and magazine cover, both of which feature a picture of the 
Petitioner andl I However, the Petitioner did not show that such limited media coverage 
indicates an original contribution of major significance in the field. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that her research and findings resulted in widespread coverage and interest. 
.__ ______ ~indicates that the Petitioner's research team at the University ofl lwas able 
to "produce and purify antibodies against.__ ____ ..,.....---,,-----'" which his laboratory used "to 
test and measure allergic reactions and insensitivities of to various components of soybean." He 
indicates that the work of the Petitioner's research team "opened the wa to more scientific studies of 
food allergies in I I rather than in the use of rodent models." the Petitioner's 
colleague a~ !University, states that the Petitioner's use of probiotics i~--.....-----.--.,,..models to 
alleviate! I allergy warrants further investigation. He states that the Petitioner's work 
establishing the superiority of the I I model to the inbred rodent model as an analogue ofQ 
allergies in humans "considerably changed the course of food allergy research." He does not elaborate 
as to why and how the Petitioner's work "considerably changed" research in the field. 
The Petitioner also provided letters from several researchers who have cited to the Petitioner's research 
in their own work. For instance, emeritus professor of microbiology at the University I I states that his own research involving .__ __ ~ in the study of virulence factors in animal 
7 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
health research reinforces the Petitioner's claim that thel I is a more appropriate model for 
studying human immunology than the inbred mice model. He asserts that the Petitioner "has provided 
a wealth of data that identifies.__ ____ ---.-,..... animal model of choice when studying food allergies 
and preventative treatments and should be used moving forward. 
Overall, the expert letters have not elaborated or discussed whether the Petitioner's findings have been 
implemented beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent 
of their application. While the letters praise the Petitioner's research as original, valuable and 
promising, they have not sufficiently detailed in what ways her studies have already advanced the state 
of research in this field or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider 
field beyond the teams of researchers who have directly cited her articles. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from her colleagues and other experts, establishes that the 
Petitioner has been very productive, and that her published data and findings have been relied upon 
by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original 
contribution of major significance in her field. Therefore, she has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
Petitioner has not established that her professional accomplishments have placed her among the upper 
level of her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8641102 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a pianist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a music director fore=] in I I New York. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
judged a student musical competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
satisfied the judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she fulfills the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on first prize at the D New York 
International Artists Association Piano Competition (NYIAAPC) and an award from the D IBLA 
Grand Prize International Competition (IBLAGPIC). In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the 
basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the 
criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or 
awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on 
competitors. 2 
As it relates to NYIAAPC, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from nyiaa.org regarding background 
information and rules and regulations for the competition. In addition, the Petitioner presented a letter 
froml lof NYIAA, who indicated that NYIAA "is a non-profit organization 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
established in 2010 with the mission to provide fertile ground for professional musicians from around 
the globe to realize their goals through healthy competition." Further,I I stated that the piano 
competition "is rigorous and requires that candidates show substantial works by maestros" and 
"competed with exceptionally talented pianists from all over the world, of 18-35 ages." Moreover, I I claimed that "[r]eceiving the 1st prize in the [NYIAAPC] is a major achievement for any 
professional pianist since the standards, as mentioned above, are extremely high." 
The evidence, however, does not demonstrate that the NYIAAPC first prize is nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Although the nyiaa.org screenshots reflect 
information about the competition, they do not contain sufficient material evidencing the national or 
international significance of the prize. Furthermore, the screenshots indicate that the competition is 
restricted by age and first prize receives $1,000. Here, the Petitioner did not show that such limited 
age requirements and minor prize money are characteristic of a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize for excellence in the field. In addition, while I I opined that NYIAAPC "is a major 
achievement," she did not support her assertion with detailed, specific, and objective information 
explaining how the overall field views the prize beyond NYIAA. 
Regarding IBLAGPIC, the Petitioner provided a certificate of recognition and screenshots from 
ibla.org reflecting the~"IBLA Grand Prize Awards" (Top Winners), "Outstanding Musicians" 
(Honorary Awards and Special Mention Winners), "Most Distinguished Musicians" (Honorary 
Awards and Special Mention Winners), and "Distinguished Musicians." Further, she offered 
additional screenshots from ibla.org relating to the competition. Moreover, she presented an article 
posted on iitaly.org announcing the 2014 IBLAGPIC that "featur[es] World Class Performers from 
Europe, Russia, Asia and the U.S." In addition, she submitted a letter fromj I 
I lof IBLA Foundation, who stated that IBLAGPIC "is an annual competition open to all 
instruments, vocalists, and composures with a focus on classical music" and named several former 
New York politicians who "officially commended" the awards. I I also indicated that 
IBLAGPIC "is unique in that there are no rounds or prizes such as first and second prize, and 
competitors are judged against the international standard of high-quality performances rather than 
competing against each other." 
The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate which award she received from the compet1t10n. 
According to the certificate of recognition, the Petitioner received a "9.00 Outstanding Musician + 
Haendel Special Mention." On the other hand, according to the ibla.org screenshots, the Petitioner 
received an "8.90 Most Distinguished Musician+ Haendel Special Mention."3 Moreover, the ibla.org 
screenshots list only two individuals receiving the "Outstanding Musician," none of whom are the 
Petitioner. 4 Further, although! !indicated that the Petitioner's performances "won her the 
highest points from the judges and Ha[ e ]ndel honors," he did not clarify whether she received an 
"Outstanding Musician" or a "Most Distinguished Musician." Inconsistencies in the record must be 
resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
3 The ibla.org screenshots reflect that scores from 9.50 to 10.00 plus special awards are "Top Winners," scores from 9.00 
to 9.50 plus special mention are "Outstanding Musicians," scores from 8.00 to 8.90 plus special mention are "Most 
Distinguished Musicians," and scores from 7.00 to 7.90 plus special mention are "Distinguished Musicians." 
4 We also note that there were 2 "Top Winners," 43 "Most Distinguished Musicians," and 11 "Distinguished Musicians." 
3 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish that an IBLAGPIC "Outstanding Musician" 
and "Most Distinguished Musician," as well as any of the other awards, are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. While the ibla.org screenshots contain 
"Frequently Asked Questions" and information about the competition, they do not show the national 
or international significance of the awards in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how an article covering the~ competition reflects a level of press coverage consistent with 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not establish that a competition that issues almost 60 awards, including 43 for "Most Distinguished 
Musician," is commensurate with nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence. 
Furthermore, although I I indicated that New York politicians have commended the 
awards, he did not indicate the national or international recognition of the awards in the overall field 
beyond New York politicians. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence that she received a silver award from the ~I---~ 
International Music Competition. However, we will not consider this eligibility claim and evidence 
as the award occurred after she filed her petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l 
Comm'r 1971). 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, she did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on articles published in Music Review 
and Music Journal. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published 
material about her in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, 
date, and author of the material. 5 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted an article from Music Review and an article from 
Music Journal indicating published material about her relating to her work and containing the required 
title, date, author, and translation. 6 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that Music Review or 
Music Journal represents a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 The Petitioner provided a second article from Music Review; however, the a1iicle reflects a critique of an orchestra rather 
than published material about her and her work. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g.. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires 
professional or major trade publications. Moreover, she contends that she "has been featured several 
times in two professional trade publications in South Korea." Further, she argues that "there is 
significant material published in trade journals about [her] and her work." The Petitioner, however, 
has not established whether she claims eligibility based on material occurring in professional 
publications, major trade publications, or both. Regardless, she did not demonstrate that Music Review 
or Music Journal qualifies as a professional publication or as a major trade publication. 
Regarding Music Review, the Petitioner submitted subscription information and a letter from~ I I who indicated that "Music Review is a periodical magazine that was launched in April 
2016 (published every month of 4,800 copies) that delivers vivid news from all classical music circles 
in Korea." In addition, target readers include "[ a ]rtists who play music, music lovers such as classical 
U.S. musicals, and regular readers." As it relates to Music Journal, the Petitioner presented 
subscription and background information, including evidence that it received a distinction award from 
the Korean government in 1997, and a letter from~--------~ who stated that "this 
magazine serves as a record writer in the music industry" and "focuses on the interests of musicians, 
music lovers, music academies, and parents with children who want to major in music." 
Here, the Petitioner's evidence does not sufficiently show that Music Review or Music Journal is a 
professional or major trade publication. Neither publication is geared towards a specific professional 
occupation or distributed by a professional association to be classified as a professional publication. 7 
Further, the magazines do not appear to share information between people within a specific industry 
in order to improve their business or field to keep up-to-date on market trends to be considered a trade 
publication. 8 Even if they are trade publications, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a circulation 
of 4,800 copies per month for Music Review or receiving a government award for Music Journal 
reflects the magazine's major status. The Petitioner, for instance, did not explain the significance of 
the circulation figures or establish the relevance of the 1997 government award in establishing the 
standing of a major medium. 9 Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit independent, probative 
evidence to support the magazine letters' claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine 
as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). 
The Petitioner also argues that Korean Broadcasting System (KBS) conducted a radio interview of her 
on KBS Classic 1 FM and televised a performance on KBS 1 TV. She submitted a letter froml I 
who stated that KBS Classic 1 FM interviewed the Petitioner for its "Cultural 
~C_o_m_m_o_n_g_r_o_un_d_"_s_e_g~ment. Moreover, she presented a letter froml I who 
indicated that KBS 1 TV broadcasted the Petitioner's performance with I I 
7 Section 101 (a)(32) of the Act provides that "[t]he tenn 'profession' shall include but not be limited to architects, 
engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers in elementary or secondary schools, colleges, academics, or 
seminaries. Further, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2) states that "[p]rofession means one of the occupations listed 
in section I0l(a)(32) of the Act, as well as any occupation for which a United States baccalaureate degree or its foreign 
equivalent is the minimum requirement for entry in the occupation. 
8 See libguides.seminolestate.edu, accessed on May 26, 2020, providing characteristics of trade publications. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
~-----r----~ on its "the KBS Culture Anchor Desk" program. Although she provided a 
"Confirmation Form" showing that she was hired for a radio interview and a screenshot from YouTube 
for the television performance, the Petitioner did not provide a transcription of the interview or 
performance establishing published material about her relating to her work. Further, the Petitioner did 
not include the required author and title for the radio interview and the author for the television 
performance. In addition, based on I l's letter, the television broadcasted the I I I I performance rather than published material about the Petitioner relating to her 
work. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at*7 (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the P~ did not demonstrate that the radio or television programs represent major 
media. Although L____J claimed that the radio station's "Cultural Commonground" program is a 
"highly popular segment," he did not provide any further, detailed information showing the status of 
the radio program as a major medium. Moreover, the Petitioner did not offer any independent, 
objective evidence to support! ts claims. Relating to the television station's "Culture Anchor 
Desk" program, the Petitioner submitted evidence from Nielson Korea reflecting that the program 
received 0.4% share of the audience and was ranked 301 st.10 The Petitioner, however, did not establish 
that such figures are indicative of a major medium. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that her work was on 
display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 11 Here, the record contains evidence 
that Petitioner displayed her work performing at various artistic, musical venues. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner argues that she serves in "a critical and irreplaceable role" for the l !chapter of I I "a non-profit organization founded in 2006 to help the disabled, hospitalized, and 
disadvantaged by enriching their lives with high quality entertainment events and programs."12 As it 
relates to a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities.13 It is not the 
title of the alien's role, but rather the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is, or was, critical. 14 
10 In contrast. the evidence shows that the program "Curious Story Y" had 10.8% share of the audience and was ranked 
first. 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
12 The Petitioner does not claim, nor does record reflect, that she performed in a leading role forD 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
14 Id. 
6 
She references a letter from~------------~' who claimed that the Petitioner "is one 
of the most engaged, talented musicians we have had the pleasure of bringing into I I and that 
makes her participation critical to I Is various events." Moreover, I I indicated that 
the Petitioner conducted a choir program for children, held outreach concerts at hospitals, and served 
as the choir director and pianist for children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. 
Further, I I opined that the Petitioner's "playing is of such a quality that even our most 
discerning patrons are left in awe," and her "skill as a pianist are therefore also essential to the annual 
fundraising efforts ofl I and to the continued success of the organization." 
The letter, however, does not contain detailed information demonstrating that the Petitioner performed 
in a critical role for LJ15 I I for example, did not elaborate and explain how the 
Petitioner's role contributed to the successes of0overall rather than generally indicating various 
events she participated. Moreover,! I did not articulate how the Petitioner's involvement with 
conducting a choir program, holding outreach concerts at hospitals, and serving as the choir director 
and pianist resulted in important outcomes for D s activities. In addition, I I did not 
expound upon how the Petitioner's skills impacted or influence~ ts fundraising activities at a 
critical or essential level. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish thatc=J enjoys a distinguished reputation. 16 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner submitted screenshots from enob.org relating to D's mission, 
background information, and activities. Moreover, she presented three articles posted on 
koreadaily.om and three articles posted on koreatimes.com indicating thatD held free concerts 
and events for patients and children. Although~n-profitable and charitable contributions are 
admirable, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that LJ gamers an eminent reputation. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show that six articles from two websites reflects a level of media coverage consistent 
with an organization that has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner did not include evidence, for 
example, showing the public's view of the organization or the receipt of critical acclaim or bestowed 
honors, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
15 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that this is one criterion where letters from 
individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to 
USCTS officers in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
16 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition 
of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has judged students and performed music, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8095932 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an assistant professor of anesthesiology, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as an assistant professor of anesthesiology at I 
College inl I New York, with duties including education, research, and patient c~a_r_e ___ T_h_e_r_e_c_o-rd~ 
shows that I I College is a subsidiary of I . I Medical Center I I an 
academic health sciences center that includes I Medical Center Hospital. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
reviewed papers for journals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
judging criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional criteria, relating to published materials 
in major media, original business contributions of major significance, scholarly articles, and leading 
or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments, discussed below. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On apl eal for the first time, the Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on an article 
titled I' published in the newspaper Albany Times 
Union. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author 
of the material. 1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
The aforementioned article indicates that the Petitioner's medical device company,! I was one 
of four startup companies that received awards in cash and services in j comp:t1tion sponsored by the 
at Med. Although, in ~-------------------------~ discussing each startup, the article mentions that the Petitioner and his co-inventor developed 
technology intended to prevent complications froml I caused by surgery, the article is not 
about the Petitioner. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that Albany Times Union is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. The Petitioner cites to information on the company's website that 
"[t]he Times Union is the leading news organization in New York's Capital Region." He also 
provides data from an Albany Business Review article posted on www.bizjournals.com that the average 
paid weekday circulation of Albany Times Union is 43,807. Here, the Petitioner did not show the 
significance of the circulation figure or how such data reflects status as a major medium. 2 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner maintains that he has made several original contributions of major significance in his 
field as evidenced by citation to his work, publication in top ranked journals, testimonial letters, and 
patent applications. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
Regarding his citations, in response to the Director's request for evidence the Petitioner provided 
evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 17 cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that 
his four cited articles received 11 (Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia), 4 (Journal of 
Clinical Anesthesia), 1 (Journal of Cardiac Surgery), and 1 (Anesthesia and Analgesia), citations, 
respectively. 4 This criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can 
serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. 
However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that his citations for any of his published articles 
are commensurate with contributions of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 The Petitioner's remaining 7 articles garnered no citations. 
3 
significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. Although his citations are indicative that his 
research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his citation 
numbers to his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 5 
Likewise, the record contains evidence of his attendance and participation at national conferences but 
did not demonstrate how they resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. Publications 
and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that a presentation at a conference alone 
demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted evidence that he is the lead inventor on a provisional patent 
application for a I I device and on a utility patent application for anl I device, filed in 
2018 and 2019, respectively. He also provided a letter from the attorney who filed the patent 
application on the I I device, opining that the device "is a novel invention, with little or no 
indication that others had even conceived of the possibility of the invention." There is no guarantee, 
however, that the Petitioner's patent applications will result in the patents actually being awarded. 
Moreover, a patent primarily recognizes the originality of the idea, but it does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner made a contribution of major significance in the field. The Petitioner also indicates that his 
I I award related to the I I device constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(i) is a separate criterion pertaining to awards. While some 
awards might also be relevant to whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major 
significance, the Petitioner must demonstrate the relevance of his recognition at competitions to this 
criterion. The record does not contain evidence to establish this relevance, such as evidence that the 
I I award recognizes biomedical technologies that have influenced the field as opposed to 
recognizing promising biotech startups. 
Finally, the Petitioner presented about 18 recommendation letters that praised him for his professional 
achievements but do not demonstrate their major significance in the field. In general, the letters 
recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and point to the 
citation of his work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not show how 
his research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field 
rises to the level required by this criterion. 
For instance, .__ ________ ---;::::!..::a:::.s::..:se::rt..::s:......::th=a:..:t~t=h:.:e:......:..P..:.e.::ti.::ti..:.o.::n..:.er=-'-=-s-=r:...:e:::.s.::..ea=r:...:c.::h~pu::.b::..:l::.is:..:h::.:e:...:d:......::in::....:h::i.::..s --=2:..:0:....:1:...:::..,5 
Anesthesia & Analgesia article, titled,::..======,------------;::::::====:::;------~ I I' "can assist in identifying thi~._ _____ _.I complication duringl ~ interventions." 
He characterizes the Petitioner's 2017 Journal o Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia article 
'as L...-------------------------------------~ having "contributed to the evolution of safe and effective anesthesia practice" by having demonstrated 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
that I ~lone provides benefits of decreased ICU stay and decreased cost with no differences in 
30-day mortality. 6 L I opines that the Petitioner's conference presentation on D 
.__ __________________________ _,' was "helpful for many 
practitioners in this field to offer superior patient care." Although those letters demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's work may have resulted in incremental advancements in the field, such as are expected in 
any original research, they do not indicate how it qualifies as contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
'------------,-J characterizes the Petitioners highest cited 2017 article in the Journal of 
Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia as "one of the landmark articles for patients undergoing 
~-_,!valve replacement." However,! I did not elaborate as to why the Petitioner's 2017 
research was considered a "landmark" article, to show that the field considers it to be a contribution 
of major significance. He states that the Petitioner's fourth-highest cited 2015 article in Anesthesia & 
Analgesia provided doctors with "an additional easier way to identify this t e of com lication" and 
that he has "incorporated these findings into my practice." Similar! , the 
Petitioner's colleague from medical school andl IHospital in,__ __ __. India, and.__ ___ ~ I I of the Journal(( Car~othoracic and Vascular Anesthesia, assert that they 
follow the Petitioner's triage method for atients set forth in his 2017 article in that journal. 
They do not explain, however, how their practice has been impacted or discuss whether the Petitioner's 
findings have been utilized by other practitioners or researchers in the same field, and if so, the extent 
of their application. 
We further note that the letters ofl l I 11 l and I I contain multiple 
identical statements which suggest that their language was not written independently. While we 
acknowledge that the authors have provided their support for this petition, it is unclear whether the 
letters reflect their independent observations and thus an informed and unbiased opinion of the 
Petitioner's work. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
I I whose states his research team cited to the Petitioner's 2017 Journal of 
Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia article in support of the "hypothesis tha~ ~edation is a 
safe mode of anesthesia in selected! !patients," asserts that the Petitioner's findings "contributed 
significantly to the observational literature" on that topic. I I did not explain how the 
Petitioner's research has influenced the overall field rather than referencing his research in an editorial 
examining sedation versus general anesthesia in I I The Petitioner has not established that 
references to his research in that editorial or other articles are indicative of his work's significant 
impact in the field. Rather, these publications acknowledge that his studies have added to the general 
pool of knowledge, which, without evidence of significant influence in the field, is insufficient to 
satisfy this criterion. 
Further, some of the testimonials detail the benefits patients received from the Petitioner's skills in 
individual cases. For example.I I relates details of the Petitioner's placement 
of a breathing tube in a case in which he claims that the Petitioner's "ability to act flawlessly" saved 
lives as an anesthesia resident. '----------~-~ provides that the Petitioner "was 
6 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
instrumental in saving the patient's life" in placing a spinal drain and assisting in resuscitation. 
Regardless of the field of endeavor, the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance 
in the field" requires evidence of an impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013). 
Other testimonial letters speculated on the potential influence and on the ossibility of beinllmajorlyl 
signjfjcaT at some point in the future. For instance,! I, I I andl !assert that the Petitioner's work on a~----~ airway device with 
a built-in endotracheal tube "has the potential to eliminate routine laryngoscopy for endotracheal 
intubation in many procedures performed under general anesthesia." While the letters may show 
promise in the Petitioner's method, they do not establish how his method already qualifies as a 
contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The 
significant nature of his method has yet to be determined or measured. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined that the published materials do not meet this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner argues that the Director imposed "additional novel substantive and evidentiary requirements 
beyond those set forth in the regulations," in concluding that "[ e ]vidence of just 4 cited articles 
authored by [the Petitioner] with a total of 17 citations does not meet the plain language of this 
regulatory criterion and is not indicative of sustained national or international acclaim." We agree and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 9 The record demonstrates that the 
Petitioner has published 11 articles in professional scientific journals. Upon review, the evidence 
satisfies this criterion. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
9 The level ofrecognition received by the Petitioner's articles would be more relevant to an examination of the totality of 
the evidence. As discussed above, where a petitioner provides qualifying evidence satisfying the initial evidentiary criteria, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
6 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he ]llayed a 1
1eading jnd critical role as a chief resident at I _ Hospital, anesthesiology representative for Medical 
College's Graduate Medical Education Council (GMEC), and anesthesiology lead fo.___ _ ____.Med's 
structural heart program, and references recommendation letters. As it relates to a leading role, the 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 11 
The letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's critical roles.12 For instance, on appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the evidence of the Petitioner's role as al I while training at I I 
.__ __ ~ ___ ____.Hospital is sufficient to demonstrate that he has erformed in a leading or critical 
role. The petitioner submitted a letter of su ort from stating: "[The Petitioner] ... 
attended the.__ _______________ ___. Hospital anesthesiology residency from 
2009-1012. He was an outstanding resident and an obvious choice for chiefresident. His evaluations 
were the highest ever given to a resident at the time and they continue to be the standard by which all 
evaluations are measured." While it appears that the Petitioner performed admirably on the medical 
tasks to which he was assigned, there is no evidence demonstrating that his role as a chief resident 
physician was leading or critical for I I Hospital. For 
example, there is no organizational chart or other evidence documenting where the Petitioner's chief 
resident position fell within the general hierarchy of the physicians employed by~-------~ 
~-----,...------~Hospital. The Petitioner's evidence does not demonstrate how his temporary 
medical residency training appointment differentiated him from the numerous other physicians working 
atl I Hospital, let alone the hospital's department heads. The 
documentation submitted by the Petitioner does not differentiate him from the hospital's other physicians 
so as to demonstrate his leading role and does not establish that he was responsible for the hospital's 
success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
The Petitioner also asserts that his service as the I l anesthesiology representative for ~I __ _. 
Medical College's GMEC was a critical role for the college "because he was responsible for ensuring 
that Medical College's I !anesthesiology fellowship program meets the standards set 
forth by the " Although the record contains a document indicating that in 2018 the Petitioner 
represented the .__ _ __.anesthesiology division at a GMEC meeting it does not demonstrate that in 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
II Id. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
this role the Petitioner was responsible for the college's success or standing to a degree consistent with 
the meaning of "critical role." 
Further, the Petitioner claims that he played a critical role for I . I Med as the anesthesiology lead 
for its structural heart program. The letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading position, 
nor do they contain specific information signifying the Petitioner's critical role tol • I Med. For 
instance,! I professor and chair of the anesthesiology department at I I 
Medical College, asserts that the Petitioner plays a critical role for the college as the anesthesia lead 
for the structural heart committee, in having "contributed to significant change in clinical anesthesia 
practice of structural heart disease patients" and having "earned recognition for his outstanding 
contribution to system development in relation to this program." The record contains the Petitioner's 
certificates of achievement for his work with the structural heart program between 2015 and 201 7, 
including for outstanding contributions to trans esophageal echocardiography (2016, 2017) and system 
development (2017). 
~-----,--,---~I president and CEO of I I Med, indicates that in his "critical" role with the 
structural heart committee the Petitioner leads the anesthesia team, performs clinical research studies 
that have improved fluoroscopic time, and implements best practices that have identified avoidable 
patient interventions. I !executive vice president of I I Med, asserts that 
the Petitioner plays a leading and critical role for the center as a structural heart anesthesiologist in 
collaborating with various teams including interventional cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons to 
advance research in anesthesia practices. 
While the Petitioner has performed admirably as a structural heart anesthesiologist, the evidence does 
not establish that his role as anesthesiology lead for its structural heart program has been in a critical 
capacity forl I Med. For example, while I I mentions that the structural heart 
committee is comprised of a multi-disciplinary team of experts including cardiologists, interventional 
cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, and cardiac anesthesiologists, the record does not contain an 
organizational chart or other evidence documenting how the Petitioner's position fits within the 
general hierarchy of the I , IMed and differentiates him from its physicians and anesthesiologists. 
Although the Petitioner's current position title includes structural heart committee anesthesiology "lead", 
it has not been established that he has a leading role withinl I Med as a whole. In addition, the 
documentation submitted by the Petitioner does not establish that he was responsible forl IMed's 
success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
Finally, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate thatl IMed qualifies as an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
record contains articles from Albmt Busirss Review and Albany Times Union that discuss 0 
I Is appointment as CEO of Med, dated! 12019, respectively. However, 
the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § ll03.2(l)(l). As 
he filed his Qetition r April 2019, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the reputation of Medical 
College and Medical Center prior to or at the time of his initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Albany Business Review article indicates-;........:::th::a:2tj= _ __.IMed is "the 
region's largest health system." The Albany Times Union article states that I IMed is "the largest 
8 
locally governed health system in the region" and "includes al I hospital, medical college, 
research hub, urgent care centers, multi-specialty centers, Jhysicians offices, and affiliations with I !Hospital and Health in I ' While these documents verify the size 
and growth of.__ _ __. Med, they are insufficient to establish that it has a distinauished Tputation. The 
Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of Med, and how 
its reputation compares to similar establishments, or how its successes or accomplishments relate to 
others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
Petitioner has not established that his professional accomplishments have placed him among the upper 
level of his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8537722 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment in motion pictures as a visual effects producer. Because the 
Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and commercial successes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x). However, for the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with the Director's 
findings for these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish 
that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the Producers Guild of 
America (PGA) and the Doordarshan Approved Drama Artist Association (DADAA). In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
Regarding PGA, the Petitioner previously submitted screenshots from PGA's website reflecting that 
membership requires professional experience in a certain period, such as at least 2 feature films within 
the past 7 years, or at least 5 short films, 2 long-term television programs, 13 episodic television 
programs, or 100 non-episodic television programs for the last 5 years. In addition, the applicant must 
submit a resume and verifying references from one PGA member and two industry professionals. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that attaining a minimum amount of professional 
experience rises to a level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 2 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that PGA membership requires outstanding achievements of its 
members. 
Moreover, the screenshots indicate that "[ u ]pon receipt of all materials your application will be 
processed and then vetted by the Membership Committee." However, the Petitioner did not identify 
the individuals on the membership committee and did not establish whether they are comprised of 
recognized national or international experts. 3 On appeal, the Petitioner submits PGA' s "Master 
Committee Manual" that provides an overview of its national and regional committees, chair policies 
and procedures, meetings and events, and budgets and contracts. 4 The manual, however, does not 
reference the "Membership Committee," nor does it show that the committee consists of recognized 
national or international experts. In addition, while the manual contains a "Staff Contact Sheet" listing 
the national and regional directors of membership, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these 
individuals actually judge the achievements of membership candidates and whether they are nationally 
or internationally recognized experts. 
Regarding DADAA, the Petitioner initially submitted his membership card without any other evidence 
showing the membership requirements and selection process. On appeal, the Petitioner presents 
screenshots from allindiaradio.gov claiming that they are "available audition criterias [sic] applicable 
to the Drama Artists as per Drama Audition Committee." However, the screenshots pertain to radio 
drama auditions in India rather than the membership requirements for DADAA. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish how the evidence relates to DADAA, let alone how the evidence demonstrates that 
DADAA requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that his recommendation letters reflect his eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead to a 
conclusion that the alien's membership in the associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include 
where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field). 
3 Id. 
4 The Petitioner also submitted a letter from Jo-Ann B. West, director of operations for PGA, who confirmed the 
Petitioner's membership standing. 
3 
he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
The Petitioner previously submitted job offer letters from.__ _____________ __. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the letters established his original contributions of 
major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner provides several recommendation letters 
praising him for his talents and abilities. For instance, "I can assure you based on my experience and 
associations that he is one of the very best talents whom I know from India and who has established 
himself over the passage of time through his continued efforts"------, "[the Petitioner's] 
finished works are all testaments and extraordinary ability and it is really astounding that he has made 
his name as an established professional" ______ __,., and "I can assure that he has already 
established himself through his continuous sound efforts and stellar technical performances" I I. 6 However, the letters do not establish how the Petitioner's skills are viewed by 
the field as original contributions of major significance. The letters, for instance, do not specifically 
identify the Petitioner's contributions and explain how they have significantly impacted or unusually 
influenced the field in a major way consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, having a 
diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Further, 
the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents 
to influence the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. In addition, the letters do not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner's talents and skills have been a major influence in the overall field 
beyond the film projects in which he worked. 7 While the letters generally acknowledged the 
Petitioner's participation on unnamed films, they did not establish how the Petitioner's work 
constituted contributions in the field in a significant, major manner. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his work has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 Although we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
As previously mentioned, although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, 
we disagree. In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his work 
was on display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 10 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided a self-compiled list indicating 10 film titles with their 
formats, theatrical exhibition territories, and his contributions. While the Petitioner claimed that he 
derived the information from imdb.com and he provided screenshots from IMDb's website regarding 
the films, they do not corroborate his assertions relating to the theatrical exhibition territories and his 
contributions. Moreover, while he indicated that the theatrical exhibition territory covered numerous 
countries, he did not identify which artistic exhibitions or showcases displayed the films. In addition, 
the Petitioner submitted screenshots from the-numbers.com for eight movies regarding box office 
receipts. Again, the screenshots do not show which exhibitions or showcases displayed the films, nor 
do they credit the Petitioner for contributing to the films. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he displayed his work. 11 Specifically, the 
Petitioner's self-comprised list claims his contributions as production coordinator, senior production 
coordinator, and line producer. However, the Petitioner did not establish how his positions involved 
displaying his work in the movies. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that he displayed his special 
effects for the movies rather than overseeing the work of others. Likewise, although the record 
contains a letter from I l human resources forD who indicated that the Petitioner 
worked on five films as a production coordinator, senior production coordinator, or associate line 
producer, the Petitioner did not show that his producing contributions resulted in his work being 
displayed. 
Moreover, the Petitioner previously argued that his evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. 12 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).13 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 14 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate why he cannot offer 
evidence that meets at least three criteria, including this criterion. The fact that the Petitioner provided 
documentation that does not meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a visual effects producer 
could not do so. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that the other criteria, such as awards, 
published material, judging, and high salary, do not apply to his occupation. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
11 Id. at 9. 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence. For these reasons, we withdraw the decision of the director for 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his positions with.__ _______ _. 
c=], D and the I ~-As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must 
establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to 
establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 15 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate 
that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.16 
As it relates to 0, he submitted a letter from I , [ senior human resources manager, who 
indicated that the Petitioner 'joined in the VFx Department and at the time ofrelieving his designation 
was VFx Line Producer." On appeal, the Petitioner refers to a screenshot from producerguild.org that 
indicates that the "Co-Producer /Line Producer is to be granted to the individual who reports directly 
to the individual(s) receiving 'Produced By' credit on the theatrical motion picture," and "[t]he Co­
Producer/Line Producer is the single individual who has the primary responsibility for the logistics of 
the production, from pre-production through completion of production." However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate how the evidence shows that in his position as a line producer for a movie he 
performed in a leading role forD overall. Moreover, according to the screenshot, the Petitioner's 
line producer role is in a subordinate role compared to the other positions in a production. For instance: 
The chief of Executive Producer shall only apply to an individual who has made a 
significant contribution to the motion picture and who additionally qualifies ... [as] 
[h]aving secured an essential and proportionally significant part (no less than 25%) of 
the financing for the motion picture; and/or [h]aving made a significant contribution to 
the development of the literary property. 
In addition, whil~ llisted his "key roles and responsibilities," he did not explain how the 
petitioner critically contributed to the successes of0. Instead,! !generally described the 
responsibilities of a line producer without specifically showing how the petitioner performed in an 
essential position fore=] as a whole. 17 
Likewise, regarding D the Petitioner provided two letters from I I human resources, 
who indicated that the Petitioner served as a production coordinator and later as a senior production 
15 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
16 Id. 
17 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
coordinator.18 The producerguild.org screenshot reflects that "[t]he Production Coordinator reports to 
the person(s) receiving the Produced By credit, the Co-Producer/Line Producer[,] the Production 
Supervisor/Manager[,]or UPM," and "[t]he Post Production Supervisor reports directly to the Co­
Producer/Line Producer." Here, the Petitioner did not establish how the evidence shows that in his 
position as a production coordinator and senior production coordinator for a movie resulted in a 
leading or critical role for c=J, as a whole. In fact, the role of a production coordinator and senior 
production coordinator for a movie is in a lesser role than a line producer. 
Similar to I l's letter,I l also generally described the Petitioner's "key roles and 
responsibilities" without specifically explaining how the Petitioner's role as a production coordinator 
and senior production coordinator for movies resulted in successes fore=] overall. Here] I 
did not elaborate and articulate how the Petitioner contributed to the c=J' s accomplishments in a 
critical way. 
As it pertains td l the Petitioner submitted emails and a letter, including an additional letter on 
appeal, inviting him "to connect at c=J' events and network with others. However, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how the documentation establishes that he performed in either a leading or critical 
role by attending and connecting with otherOmembers. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show thatc=J, D, andnhave distinguished reputations.19 On 
appeal, the Petitioner! prordes screenshots regarding~ck share information. Although the 
evidence reflects that is a viable business, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the evidence 
establishes thatOenjoys a distinguished reputation. Moreover, he submits a screenshot from~s 
website promoting itself and providing background information for the company; however, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate how the screenshot showsc:==1 s eminent reputation. Further, the 
Petitioner offers a screenshot blog from arenach.rm otning the "Top VFX Studios in India You 
Never Heard About." While the blog listsD and it does not explain or justify its claim besides 
~ing a brief history and contact information. Further, the Petitioner presents a screenshot from 
L__Js website advertising itself, and the Petitioner did not supplement the record with independent, 
objective evidence showing that D garnered an excellent reputation. Here, the Petitioner did not 
present sufficient documentation to establish the standings or statures of the organizations. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitioner claimed comparable evidence to meet this criterion based 
on the same claims and documentation discussed above. For the reasons previously discussed, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria, including 
this criterion. As such, he did not show his eligibility for the submission of comparable evidence 
under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion, including based on 
comparable evidence. 
18 The record also contains four paystubs indicating his position as an associate line producer, which appears to be in a 
lesser role than a line producer discussed earlier. 
19 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that Webster's online dictionary defines 
distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
7 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met this criterion. However, we disagree with the Director's 
determination. In order to satisfy this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and 
box office receipts reflect an alien's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 20 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a self-compiled list of ten films reflecting their 
"making cost" and "worldwide recovery." In addition, he provided screenshots from Wikipedia 
regarding background for eight of the films. Moreover, as mentioned under the display criterion, the 
Petitioner provided screenshots from imdb.com and the-numbers.com relating to eight films. 
However, none of the screenshots from Wikipedia, IMDb, and The Numbers credit the Petitioner with 
working on any of the films. Further, while the previously discussed letter from I I indicated 
that the Petitioner worked on five films as a production coordinator, senior production coordinator, or 
associate line producer, the Petitioner did not show that in those positions he was responsible for the 
commercial success of those five films. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he achieved 
commercial successes in the performing arts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Finally, the record reflects that the Petitioner claimed comparable evidence to meet this criterion based 
on the same claims and documentation discussed under the display criterion. For the reasons 
previously discussed, the Petitioner did not demonstrate why he cannot offer evidence that meets at 
least three criteria, including this criterion. As such, he did not show his eligibility for the submission 
of comparable evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
As he did not demonstrate his commercial successes in the performing arts, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he fulfills this criterion, including based on comparable evidence. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
20 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
8 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has experience working in the motion picture industry, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738529 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 31, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musical director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award) or that he, in the alternative , satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a co-founder, musician, and musical director for the 
I I group I I The evidence indicates that I I which formed in 1987, 
regularly performs at restaurants, private and corporate parties, and special events inl I and 
has made appearances onl I television. In a letter submitted with his petition, the Petitioner 
stated his intent to work as a musical director for several! !Florida-based projects focused on I lmusic. 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he received two major, internationally recognized awards, 
specifically twol lawards, and therefore established that he has a qualifying one-time 
achievement. The Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that these awards are 
major, internationally recognized awards, and he does not pursue this claim on appeal. Because the 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this issue, we consider it to be 
abandoned.1 We will discuss the awards further in the context of lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy any of the six 
claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence related to several criteria, 
asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence standard, and maintains that 
he meets at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is otherwise qualified for the benefit 
sought. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and, for the reasons discussed below, 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and that 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on the following awards: 
• award, Musical Director of the Year (2016) • I I award, Musical Producer of the Year (201 7) 
The inscriptions on the Petitioner's award plaques indicate that he received the 2016 award for his 30 
years of experience and success directing the group I I while the 201 7 award recognizes 
his achievement of 5,000 performances with the group. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a letter froml ,I the president of the I 
ofl I Foundation, addressed to the Petitioner, which provides background regarding the 
organization and award and indicates that the Petitioner would be receiving the the 2016 Musical Director of 
the Year award at an event held at I inl _ on November 3, 2016. I I indicates that the award was established by a journalist in 1955, that it has been issued since 
that time "in the state ofl !throughout the national and international territory such as Colombia, 
Mexico, USA, Panama, Puerto Rico, Europe," and that it recognizes those in the fields ofradio, television, 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (noting 
relevant considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or 
international significance in the field). 
3 
cinema, theater, advertising, sport, commercial, business, medical and institutional, among others. The 
letter mentions that the award "operates non-profit, it also has no sponsorship from any government entity 
or private company and therefore its credibility and prestige are endorsed by our criteria and the ethics of 
each person who make up the board."I lalso states that thel I is the only prize I lthat has its certificate "endorsed by the International Federation of Awards" which makes it 
"the most credible award at a regional, national and international level." The letter indicates that winners 
are chosen "according to the results of the surveys and studies carried out by our board of directors." 
However, the Petitioner did not include any additional evidence regarding the nomination and selection 
process for the award to support a claim that it is an award for "excellence" in the field of music or explain 
or document the significance of an endorsement from the "International Federation of Awards." 
The Petitioner indicated that he was providing articles from major media publications demonstrating that 
thel I awards are "nationall and internationally distinguished." This evidence included 
information about the which does not appear to be the same as the prize. Information about th identifies its founder as The 
record indicates that the founder of the of of Foundation was I I Furthermore, the record provides different years for the founding of the two organizations The 
submitted evidence, therefore, appears to relate to two different organizations and two different prizes. 
A rt· 1 ublished by I I newspaper I describes the as "the only 
award that belongs to the I I 
which groups the awards: Billboard, 'Lo Nuestro,' 'Grammy Latinos' and Golden Globe, 
among others." The evidence did not include documentation of any media coverage of the award 
ceremonies at which the Petitioner received his I I awards or any media attention surrounding 
his receipt of these awards. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence did not 
establish that hisl I awards are nationally or internationally recognized in his field, and noted 
that the record did not include information about selection criteria for the award or information regarding 
others competing for the same award. The Director requested additional evidence to establish the criteria 
used to grant the award, the significance of the award, the reputation of the organization granting it, 
evidence related to previous winners and their acclaim in the field, and public announcements regarding 
the awards issued by the granting organization. 
The Petitioner's response included a second letter from lwho named other recipients of I I musical director or musical producer of the year awards. The RFE response also included 
media articles about these individuals from online editions of the lnewspapersl I 
and ______ ,accompanied by circulation figures for these publications. The 
Petitioner emphasized that the submitted articles about these individuals mention that they are recipients 
of I awards and therefore demonstrate that the award receives national media attention. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided an article fromc==J..+innouncin that the next award 
ceremony would be held at thel I of the Hotel in in December 
2017. While the record indicates that the Petitioner received a award in 2017, it does not 
reflect that he received it at the December 2017 ceremony in mentioned in the media article. 
The submitted certificate indicates he was awarded as "Musical Producer of the Year" at a June 30, 201 7 
ceremony held at a museum in The Petitioner did not submit an 
4 
announcement of winners from the ceremonies at which he received his awards or otherwise establish 
that those ceremonies received media attention consistent with a nationally recognized entertainment 
industry award. Further, this evidence reflects that the I I of_ I Foundation has 
multiple ceremonies in different cities on an annual basis, which suggests that at least some of its awards 
may be regional rather than national or international in scope. 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion, the Director determined that 
there was insufficient evidence to establish that his I awards are nationally or internationally 
recognized awards in the field of music, noting that the record lacked documentation showing the criteria 
used to nominate and select recipients and therefore did not establish that recipients are awarded based 
on excellence in the field of endeavor. The Director acknowledged evidence that other award recipients 
received media coverage that mentioned the I award, but noted that rankings forl I I I and I I were not sufficiently high to establish that these are major media publications 
inl I or that the awards received widespread coverage. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional letter froitj I who addresses the 
foundation's process for selecting winners. He notes that the foundation evaluates "the nominations 
received by examining the performance, cultural and artistic contribution, years of professional career of 
the nominee among other aspects" and states that "after an evaluation by a group of experts in the field 
and based on verifiable selection methods, the decision to award the nominee is made." I I 
clarifies that the "is not a contest between participants across many categories," and states 
that the Petitioner received the award "because of his musical career of many years and the cultural 
contribution of his group I 
The limited evidence of the award's media coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or 
international recognition associated with the Petitioner' sl I awards. The submitted evidence 
does not demonstrate, for example, that the award winners receive a level of media coverage associated 
with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the entertainment industry and does not 
include any media coverage of the specific ceremonies at which the Petitioner received his awards. 
Further, the evidence does not provide clear or consistent information regarding the number of award 
categories, the various levels of awards given, the criteria used to grant awards ( and whether the award 
is for "excellence" in his field), or even whether all the awards are deemed national in scope, given 
evidence that there are regional award ceremonies held in different I cities in each calendar 
year. For example, in his initial letter,I I stated that that lwinners are selected 
"according to the results of the surveys and studies carried out by our board of directors." He later 
indicated that a "group of experts in the field" evaluates nominees, but did not identify who comprises 
this group, describe the nominating process, or explain what "verifiable selection methods" are used. 
While the Petitioner submitted articles about other artists in his field that mention their receipt of the 
awards, two of the three articles focus on the current projects and overall career of the featured 
individuals rather than on the award. Notably, none of the media articles relating to this criterion 
mention the Petitioner or his receipt of the I award. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
5 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must satisfy multiple evidentiary 
requirements. First, the published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate 
to the Petitioner's work in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 3 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author. The 
Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner did not meet this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted two published articles for consideration. One article, titled I I I was published in the print edition of La Voz on I I 2017. This article is an interview with 
the Petitioner and is about him and his work in the field. The second article was published in the print 
edition of Mi Diario on I 2016, and is titled I This article 
announces a casting opportunity for the I dance competition. It includes a photograph of 
the Petitioner, refers to him as a "renowned music director" and mentions his role on the qualifying 
jury for the show. 4 To establish that these publications constitute major media, the Petitioner provided 
"traffic overview" statistics for their respective websites (diariolavoz.net and midiario.com) obtained 
from Similar Web. While this evidence includes information regarding the number of monthly visitors 
each website receives, the Petitioner did not include Similar Web's rankings (or rankings from another 
source) showing how these online publications compare with others in I Nor did the 
Petitioner explain the significance of the "traffic overview" statistics and how this information alone 
establishes that either publication qualifies as "major media." 
Moreover, the articles the Petitioner provided were from the print editions of these publications and 
were not accompanied by evidence that the articles also appeared in the respective online editions. 
The record does not include any circulation data or rankings for La Vaz or Mi Diario and therefore 
does not establish that either print publication constitutes "major media" inl 5 Nor has the 
Petitioner claimed that either publication is a professional or major trade publication. 
3 Evidence may include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular and academic 
journal articles, books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of 
the person and the person's work. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
4 We observe that the bylines on the original articles indicate that they were written by the same author. The Director 
determined that there appeared to be inconsistencies in the record concerning the articles and their English translations, in 
part questioning whether the same author wrote for both publications. The Petitioner provides additional evidence 
regarding the articles' author and his career in support of the appeal. We find no reason to doubt the credibility of the 
submitted articles. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that evidence of published material in professional or major 
trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
6 
In addition to the two published articles, the Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion because 
he was interviewed on several television programs that aired on Network. In 
support of this claim, he submitted screenshots from You Tube and Face book videos of his appearances 
on the programs! (2016 and 2017) (2016), (1999) andl I 
(1999). He provided an article about the history of from the network's 
website in support of his assertion that he was interviewed in a major medium. 
This regulatory criterion requires "published material" in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media and "the title, date, and author of the material." Screenshots of video clips are not published 
material in professional or major trade publications or other major media consistent with the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner did not establish that the screenshots from YouTube or 
Facebook videos constitute published material about him relating to his work, nor did he provide 
transcripts of his appearances on any of these programs. 
The Petitioner subsequently supplemented the record with letters from the producers of the programs and ,I who confirmed his appearances with I The producer 
of states that the Petitioner was interviewed by one of the show's presenters about the group's 
upcoming performances and about itsl I music. The producer of children's show I I stated that a member of the young cast interviewed the Petitioner about the 
beginnings of his musical career in land asked him to demonstrate how the different instruments 
are played. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of ratings for these programs in 
support of his claim that they constitute "major media" in I However, even if we determined 
that one or both television programs were deemed major media at the time of airing, the Petitioner did 
not meet the evidentiary requirements. As noted, audio and video coverage of an individual's work 
should be accompanied by a transcript in order for USCIS to determine whether such coverage meets 
all requirements for this criterion. The producers' brief summaries of the Petitioner's appearances on I and I are not equivalent to transcripts of those appearances. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion based on his service as a member of the "qualifying 
jury" for a dance-themed competitive reality show called! I He submitted two letters from 
the show's producers who indicate his involvement in the first season of the show and membership on 
the qualifying jury for a televised event held onl I 2016 at a venue inl I The 
producers note that the Petitioner provided "excellent advice and opinions to the ten new artists and 
groups that qualified for this gala." As noted above, the Petitioner's evidence also included an article 
titled _________ which was published in thel 2016 print edition 
of the publication Mi Diario. The article indicates that casting to selectl participants 
would be held on I 2016 at the I I nightclub, and that the show would soon air "on 
a television channel." The Petitioner is mentioned in the article as a member of the "qualifying jury" 
panel. 
7 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted an online article about published by I I I I on I 2016. 6 The article indicates that the new television show 
would be holding a "second casting" at thel on I 2016, and that the show 
would later be televised onl I Network. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence of his participation as a 
judge for the show, noting that the submitted articles contained inconsistent dates and that the record 
"lacked independent documentary evidence that I I actually took place." 
On appeal, the Petitioner seeks to clarify the relevant dates, noting that he served as a judge at the 
casting stage for I inl 2016 and for the show itself in I 6. He does 
not address the submitted article indicating that the castin of the show occurred i 2016, rather 
than 2016. Further, while the article from indicated that casting would 
occur in 2016 and the show would air on Network, the later article in Mi Diario only 
indicated thatl lwould be "on a television channel." The letters from the producers do not 
mention where it was ultimately broadcast. Due to these ambiguities, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the record lacks sufficient independent evidence that the competition ultimately 
took place and was televised as planned. 
Therefore, while the record demonstrates that the Petitioner was invited to participate on a jury panel 
and to evaluate the work of others in an allied field, it does not sufficiently corroborate his participation 
as a judge inl I because it lacks independent evidence that the competition was completed 
and broadcast as planned. The Petitioner does not address this deficiency on appeal. There is also a 
lack of corroborated information regarding the nature of the jury's role in evaluating the contestants. 
The show's producers stated that judges provided "tools and excellent advice and opinions" to 
participants but did not mention that the judging panel was responsible for scoring contestants or 
otherwise selecting the winner. 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish he meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion relating to the display of his 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). This determination was based, 
in part, on a finding that the criterion is intended solely for visual artists, not performing artists. We 
disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this 
criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a 
given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed 
be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 7 While not all the Petitioner's 
6 The submitted English translation of the article indicates that it was published on 2017; however, the date of 
publication on the original Spanish-language article is I 2016. 
7 See also USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that officers should use the common dictionary definitions 
of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
8 
performances withl I can be considered "artistic exhibitions or showcases," the record 
contains evidence that they have performed at cultural events intended to showcase! I of 
music and which satisfy the plain language of this criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's 
determination that the criterion was not met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner initially submitted two invoices in support of his claim that he meets this criterion: 
• July 2017 invoice in the amount of 850,000 indicatin that the Petitioner billed I I for a I lheld at the 
• June 2017 invoice in the amount of 700,000, indicating that he bille Steak House 
CA for two "presentations." 
The Petitioner provided currency conversions calculated in August 2017 and indicated that he was paid 
over $150,000 (USD) in two months based on these invoices alone. As a basis for comparison, the 
Petitioner provided salary information for "Music Directors and Composers" from two U.S. Department 
of Labor resources indicating a mean annual wage of $60,630 and a high (90th percentile) wage of 
$106,700 for this occupation in 2016. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that there was insufficient evidence to establish that the 
invoices provide evidence of wages paid to and received by him for his work as a music director. The 
Director advised the Petitioner of additional evidence he could provide to document his annual salary and 
to establish that it is high compared to others in the field. In response, the Petitioner re-submitted the 
invoices and provided a receipt indicating that, in July 2018, I paid the Petitioner 
the amount indicated on the July 2017 invoice. He also submitted additional wage data for music 
directors working in the United States from Pa scale.com. In addition, the RFE response included a letter 
from a representative of who confirms that the company has contracted the 
Petitioner and to provide shows with live musicians and dancers at private, 
corporate, social, and cultural events for many years. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, emphasizing that the submitted 
invoices alone do not provide evidence the Petitioner's actual salary or remuneration and they were not 
accompanied by evidence that the clients honored them. In this regard, we observe that, although the 
invoices identify the Petitioner as the individual billing for performances, the letter froml I I I indicates that it typically contracts for performances by I land therefore it is 
reasonable to believe that the total amount billed for a given show would include payments to other 
members of the group and other expenses related to the performance. Without additional evidence, the 
record does not establish that any payments he received forl l's services solely encompassed 
his own individual fee for services. The Director also emphasized that the record lacked any comparative 
evidence of what constitutes a high salary for a music director or producer providing similar services in I I 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence demonstrating that I I paid him the amount billed on the July 2017 invoice. The Petitioner also references the 
9 
previously submitted evidence of salaries for musical directors in the United States and asserts that 
the evidence demonstrates that he earns an "exceptionally high salary" in comparison. 
However, the Petitioner does not address the Director's determination that he did not provide a 
sufficient basis for comparison to show that his earnings are high compared to others performing similar 
work in I Persons working in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage 
statistics or comparable evidence in that country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. 
dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. 8 
Further, while the Petitioner has documented the payment he received for a single event, that payment 
(received from the client in 2018) post-dated the filing of the petition. The record lacks evidence, such 
as tax or other financial documents, showing his total earnings in any previous year. Further, as noted 
above, the record does not establish that the fee charged for his group's performance at a given event 
solely encompasses remuneration for the Petitioner's own individual services. 
For the reasons discussed, the record is insufficient to demonstrate the amount of the Petitioner's actual 
income or remuneration, and therefore it cannot establish his eligibility under this criterion. Without 
a proper basis for comparison and evidence showing his comprehensive earnings during a sustained 
period predating the filing of the petition, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents demonstrating that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims eligibility 
under one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical roles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
10 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: MAY 31, 2023 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) In Re: 26712901 
The Petitioner, an inventor of the.____________ __,technology in the micro-irrigation 
field, 1 seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents a brief and documentation regarding the translation company 
responsible for the translation of documents in the record. As a preliminary matter, the Director did 
not consider several documents in the record since they were not accompanied by a full English 
language translation certified by the translator that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). As the Petitioner notes on appeal, he submitted with the initial 
petition documents about the translator to include a diploma from the University ofl 
awarding I I a Master of Translation and Interpreting, and a certificate from the National 
Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters awarded to I las a certified translator 
from Chinese to English. However,! ldid not indicate which documents he translated and did 
not certify each translation. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a document listing the translated 
1 The Petitioner indicated three other occupations in the record to include student, professor and chief executive officer. 
After the second request for evidence whereby the Director asked for clarification on his job occupation , the Petitioner 
stated he was an inventor. I 
evidence and indicated .___________________ __, performed the translating 
services. This information appears to differ from the translator mention previously. In addition, the 
documents on appeal were not signed by the translating company and the translations were not 
properly certified. 
We adopt and affirm the Director's decision. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). The Director thoroughly analyzed the Petitioner's 
evidence and arguments and provided him with a compete decision reaching the correct conclusion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief referencing the same arguments and evidence previously 
submitted. On appeal, the Petitioner explains the technology behind the trace irrigation. Although the 
Petitioner quickly touches on a few issues discussed in the Director's decision, he does not provide 
sufficient evidence to overcome the Director's concerns. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 